

## Root account:
+ Because using the root account is potentially dangerous, you should only execute commands as root if administrative privileges are needed.
+ If the root account is disabled, as it is on the Ubuntu distribution, then administrative commands can be executed using the `sudo` command.
+ If the root account is enabled, then a regular user can execute the `su` command to switch accounts to the root account.


## Danger of sign as a root: 
+ The other potential danger with logging into the system as root is that a person that does this may forget to log out to do their non-administrative work, allowing programs such as browsers and email clients to be run as the root user without restrictions on what they could do.
+ The fact that several distributions of Linux, notably Ubuntu, do not allow users to log in as the root user should be enough indication that this is not the preferred way to perform administrative tasks.



----
# Switching Users



The `su` command allows you to run a shell as a different user. 
While switching to the `root` user is what the `su` command is used for most frequently, it can also switch to other users as well.
```
su [options] [username]
```



## Use `-login` option:
+ When switching users utilizing the login shell option is recommended, as the login shell fully configures the new shell with the settings of the new user, ensuring any commands executed run correctly. 
+ If this option is omitted, the new shell changes the UID but doesn't fully log in the user.
+ The login shell option can be specified one of three ways:
```
su -
su -l
su --login
```
+ By default, if a username is not specified, the `su` command opens a new shell as the `root` user.
+ The following two commands are equivalent ways to start a shell as the `root` user:
```
su - root
su -
```



---
# Executing Privileged Commands


The `sudo` command allows users to execute commands as another user. 
Similar to the `su` command, the `root` user is assumed by default.
```
sudo [options] command
```

Using the `sudo` command to execute an administrative command results in an entry placed in a log file.
 Each entry includes the name of the user who executed the command, the command that was executed and the date and time of execution.

One big advantage of using `sudo` to execute administrative commands is that it reduces the risk of a user accidentally executing a command as `root`. The intention to execute a command is clear; the command is executed as `root` if prefixed with the `sudo` command. Otherwise, the command is executed as a regular user.






