

Your level of access to a system is not determined solely by your user account. 
Each user can be a member of one or more groups, which can also affect the level of access to the system.

## Penalty of accounts:
+ Traditionally, UNIX systems limited users to belonging to no more than a total of sixteen groups, but the recent Linux kernels support users with over ==sixty-five thousand (65,000) ==group memberships.


## About groups:
+ The `/etc/passwd` file defines the primary group membership for a user. 
+ Supplemental group membership (or secondary group membership) and the groups themselves are defined in the `/etc/group` file.
+ The `/etc/group` file is another colon-delimited file. 
+ The following describes the fields in more detail, using a line that describes a typical group account:
	+ **Group Name**
	+ **Password Placeholder**
	+ **GID**
	+ **User List**


### Group Name:
> ==mail==:x:12:mail,postfix
+ This field contains the group name. 
+ As with usernames, names are more natural for people to remember than numbers.
+ The system typically uses group IDs rather than group names.


### Password Placeholder:
> mail:==x==:12:mail,postfix
+ While there are passwords for groups, they are rarely used in Linux. 
+ If the administrator makes a group password, it would be stored in the `/etc/gshadow` file.
+ ==The `x` in this field is used to indicate that the password is not stored in this file.==


### GID:
> mail:x:==12==:mail,postfix
+ Each group is associated with a unique group ID (GID) which is placed in this field.


### User List:
> mail:x:12:==mail,postfix==
+ This last field is used to indicate who is a member of the group. 
+ While primary group membership is defined in the `/etc/passwd` file, users who are assigned to additional groups would have their username placed in this field of the `/etc/group` file.
+ In this case, the `mail` and `postfix` users are secondary members of the `mail` group.


## View information about groups:
+ It is very common for a username to also appear as a group name. It is also common for a user to belong to a group with the same name.
+ To view information about a specific group, either the `grep` or `getent` commands can be used.
+ For example, the following commands display the `mail` group account information:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ grep mail /etc/group
mail:x:12:mail,postfix
sysadmin@localhost:~$ getent group mail
mail:x:12:mail,postfix
```
