Holding someone accountable means making sure that person is responsible for their actions.

This is particularly important now that most organizations house a great deal of information in digital form.

If you don’t keep track of how people are accessing sensitive data stored digitally, you can suffer business losses.

Many of the measures you put in place to ensure accountability are examples of ==auditing==, which is the process of reviewing an organization’s records or information.



# Accountability
To hold people accountable for their actions, you have to trace all activities in your environment back to their sources.

You could argue that implementing surveillance techniques is like having Big Brother watching over your shoulder.
This is true; if you monitor people excessively, you can create an unhealthy environment.



# Security Benefits of Accountability
When you hold people accountable, you can keep your environment secure in several ways: by enabling a principle called non-[repudiation](https://translate.google.com/?sl=en&tl=ar&text=repudiation&op=translate) (عدم الإنكار), by [deterring](https://translate.google.com/?sl=en&tl=ar&text=deterring&op=translate) those who would otherwise misuse your resources.



## Nonrepudiation
The term nonrepudiation refers to a situation in which an individual is unable to successfully deny that they have made a statement or taken an action, generally because we have sufficient evidence that they did it.


## Deterrence (الردع)
Accountability can also prove to be a great deterrent against misbehavior in your environments.

If people are aware that you’re monitoring them and if you’ve communicated to them that there will be penalties for acting against the rules, individuals may think twice before straying outside the lines.


## Intrusion Detection and Prevention
When you audit information in your environment, you can detect and prevent intrusions in both the logical and physical sense.


## Admissibility (القبول) of Records
When you seek to introduce records into legal settings, you’re more likely to have them accepted when they’re produced by a regulated and consistent tracking system.

Your accountability methods for evidence collection should create an unbroken chain of custody. 

If it doesn’t, your evidence will likely only be taken as hearsay.




# Auditing
==Auditing is a methodical **examination** and **review** of an organization’s records.==

One of the primary ways you can ensure accountability through technical means is by keeping accurate records of who did what and when they did it and then checking those records. 

If you don’t have the ability to assess your activities over a period, you won’t be able to facilitate accountability on a large scale.


## What Do You Audit?
In the information security world, organizations commonly audit the factors that determine access to their various systems. 

**For example**, you might audit passwords, allowing you to enforce the [policies dictating](https://translate.google.com/?sl=en&tl=ar&text=policies%20dictating&op=translate) how to construct and use them.

Organizations commonly audit internet usage, including websites its employees visit, instant messaging, email, and file transfers. In many cases, organizations have configured proxy servers to funnel all such traffic through just a few gateways, which allows them to log, scan, and potentially filter such traffic.



## Logging
Logging gives you a history of the activities that have taken place in an environment.

Logging is a ==reactive== tool; it allows you to view the record of an event after it has taken place.

A log might include records of events such as software errors, hardware failures, user logins or logouts, resource accesses, and tasks requiring increased privileges.

==Keep in mind that collecting logs without reviewing them is pointless.==



## Monitoring
A subset of auditing, monitoring is observing information about an environment to discover undesirable conditions such as failures, resource shortages, and security issues, as well as trends that might signal the arrival of such conditions.

Like logging, monitoring is largely a reactive activity; it takes action based on gathered data, typically from logs generated by various devices.


## Auditing with Assessments (التقييمات)
As mentioned, logging and monitoring are reactive measures. 

To assess the state of your systems more actively, you might use a kind of audit called assessments, which are tests that find and fix vulnerabilities before any attackers do.

If you can conduct assessments successfully and on a recurring basis, you will considerably increase your security posture and stand a much better chance of resisting attacks.

You can take two approaches to this: ==vulnerability assessments== and ==penetration testing==.

**Vulnerability assessments** generally involve using vulnerability scanning tools, such as [Qualys](https://www.qualys.com/).
Such tools generally work by scanning the target systems to discover open ports and then interrogating each open port to find out exactly which service is listening on it.

**Penetration testing** takes the assessment process several steps further.
When you conduct a penetration test, you mimic the techniques an actual attacker would use to breach a system.



