# Introduction


## Software project:
+ Software projects take the form of source code, which is a human-readable set of computer instructions. 
+ Since source code is not understood directly by the computer, it must be compiled into machine instructions by a compiler. 
+ The compiler is a special program that gathers all of the source code files and generates instructions that can be run on the computer, such as by the Linux kernel.


## Closed  source:
Historically, commercial software has been sold under a closed source license, meaning that users have the right to use the machine code, also known as the binary or executable, but cannot see the source code. 
Often the license explicitly states that users may not attempt to reverse engineer the machine code back to source code to figure out what it does.


## Interpreted languages:
+ Source code compiled into binary programs is one method of creating programs and running computing instructions.
+ Another is the many types of interpreted languages, such as PERL, Python and even BASH scripting, where the code is not compiled, but fed (تغذيها) to an interpreting program, typically a binary executable that understands and implements the instructions contained in the source code or scripts.


## Open source:
+ Open source takes a source-centric view of software. The open source philosophy is that users have the right to obtain the software source code, and to expand and modify programs for their own use. 
+ This also meant the code could be inspected for backdoors, viruses, and spyware. By creating a community of developers and users, accountability for bugs, security vulnerabilities, and compatibility issues became a shared responsibility.
+ This new, global community of computer enthusiasts was empowered by the growing availability of faster internet services and the world wide web.


## Before Linux:
+ Before the development of Linux, many corporate (شركة كبرى) and scientific applications ran on proprietary UNIX systems. 
+ Companies, universities, and governments that run large server farms liked the stability and relative ease of application development these platforms offered.


## UNIX history:
+ **UNIX** was initially created in 1969. By its fourth edition, in 1973, it had been rewritten in the C programming language that is still prominent today.
+ In 1984 the University of California Berkeley released 4.2BSD which introduced TCP/IP, the networking specification that underpins the Internet.
+ By the early 1990’s, when Linux development started, different companies developing UNIX operating systems realized their systems needed to be compatible, and they started working on the X/Open specification that is still used today.


## Start of linux:
+ Over the years, computer scientists and the organizations that employ them have realized the benefit of systems that provide familiar tools and consistent ways of accomplishing specific tasks. 
+ The standardization of application programming interfaces (APIs) allows programs written for one specific UNIX or Linux operating system to be ported (converted) relatively easy to run on another. 
+ So, while proprietary UNIX systems are still in use throughout the world in environments where "certified" solutions are preferred, the interoperability (التوافقية) of these systems alongside Linux computers is valued by industry, academia, and governments that use them.


## Every thing work together:
+ The importance of standards organizations cannot be overstated (مبالغ فيه). 
+ Groups like the **IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers)** and **POSIX (Portable Operating System Interface)**, allow professionals from different companies and institutions to collaborate on specifications that ==make it possible for different operating systems and programs to work together.== 
+ It doesn’t matter if a program is closed or open source, simple or complex, if it is written to these standards others will be able to use and modify it in the future. 
+ Every innovation in computing is built on the work of others who came before.
+ Open source software is a collaboration (تعاون) of different people with different needs and backgrounds all working together to make something better than any one of them could have made individually.
+ Standards are what makes this possible, and the many organizations that create, maintain and promote them are integral to the industry.


