# Open Source Licensing


When talking about buying software, there are three distinct components:
- **Ownership** – Who owns the intellectual (مفكر) property behind the software?
- **Money Transfer** – How does money change hands, if at all?
- **Licensing** – What do you get? What can you do with the software? Can you use it on only one computer? Can you give it to someone else?


## Software product: 
+ In most cases, the ownership of the software remains with the person or company that created it. 
+ Users are only granted a license to use the software; this is a matter of copyright law.
+ The money transfer depends on the business model of the creator. 
+ It’s the licensing that differentiates open source software from closed source software.


## Microsoft as an ownership of the software:
+ With Microsoft Windows, the Microsoft Corporation owns the intellectual property.
+ The license itself, the **End User License Agreement (EULA)**, is a custom legal document that you must click through, indicating your acceptance, in order to install the software.
+ Microsoft keeps the source code and distributes only binary copies through authorized channels.
+ For most consumer products you are allowed to install the software on one computer and are not allowed to make copies of the disk other than for a backup.
+ You are not allowed to reverse engineer the software. You pay for one copy of the software, which gets you minor updates but not major upgrades.


## Linux as an ownership of the software: 
+ Linux is owned by Linus Torvalds.
+ He has placed the code under a license called **GNU General Public License version 2 (GPLv2)**. 
+ This license, among other things, says that the source code must be made available to anyone who asks and that anyone is allowed to make changes.
+ One caveat (تنبيه قضائي) to this is that if someone makes changes and distributes them, they must put the changes under the same license so that others can benefit.
+ GPLv2 also says that no one is allowed to charge for (توجيه الاتهام ل) distributing the source code other than the actual costs of doing so (such as copying it to removable media).


## FOSS:
+ In general, when someone creates something, they also get the right to decide how it is used and distributed.
+ **Free and Open Source Software (FOSS)** refers to software where this right has been given up; anyone is allowed to view the source code and redistribute it. 
+ Linus Torvalds has done that with Linux – even though he created Linux he can’t forbid someone from using it on their computer because he has _given up that right_ (تخلى عن هذا الحق من خلال ترخيص) through the GPLv2 license.


## Software licensing:
+ Software licensing is a political issue, therefore it should come as no surprise that there are many different opinions.
+ Organizations have come up with their own license that embodies their particular views, so it is easier to choose an existing license than come up with your own.
+ For example, universities like the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and University of California have come up with licenses, as have projects like the Apache Foundation.
+ Also, groups like the Free Software Foundation have created their own licenses to further their agenda.



---
# The Free Software Foundation


## Free Software Foundation (FSF):
+ Only a few years after the development of the GNU project, Richard Stallman founded the **Free Software Foundation (FSF)** in 1985 with the goal of promoting free software. 
+ In this context, the word "free" does not refer to the price, but to the freedom to share, study, and modify the underlying source code. 
+ ==According to their website, the FSF believes that users should have "control over the technology we use in our homes, schools, and businesses".==

## Copyleft:
+ FSF also advocates (دعاة) that software licenses should enforce the openness of modifications. It is their view that if someone modifies free software that they should be required to share any changes they have made when they share it again. 
+ This specific philosophy is called copyleft. 
+ According to FSF, "==copyleft is a general method for making a program (or other work) free (in the sense of freedom, not "zero price"), and requiring all modified and extended versions of the program to be free as well==".


## Software patents (براءات الاختراع):
+ The FSF also advocates against software patents and acts as a watchdog (الوكالة الدولية للطاقة) for standards organizations, speaking out when a proposed (مقترح) standard might violate the free software principles by including items like Digital Rights Management (DRM) which restrict what can be done with compliant (متوافق) programs.


## GNU General Public License (GPL): 
 + The FSF have developed their own set of licenses which are free for anyone to use based on the original **GNU General Public License (GPL)**. 
 + FSF currently maintains GNU General Public License version 2 (GPLv2) and version 3 (GPLv3), as well as the GNU Lesser General Public Licenses version 2 (LGPLv2) and version 3 (LGPLv3).
 + ==These licenses are meant to be included in the actual source code to ensure that all future variants and modifications of the original program continue to have the same freedom of use as the original.== 
 + The GPL license and its variants are powerful legal tools to advance the cause of free software worldwide. 
 + What started off in 1983 as one man’s desire to share and improve software by letting others change it has ended up changing the world.


## **Copyleft Principle**: 
+ ==If you modify or distribute GPL-licensed software, you must also make your changes open source under the GPL.==


---
# The ‌⁠​​⁠​ Open Source Initiative (مبادرة)


## Open Source Initiative (مبادرة):
+ The **Open Source Initiative (OSI)** was founded in 1998 by Bruce Perens and Eric Raymond. 
+ They believed that the Free Software Foundation was too politically charged and that less extreme licenses were necessary, particularly around the copyleft aspects of FSF licenses. 
+ ==OSI believes that not only should the source be freely available, but also that no restrictions should be placed on the use of the software, no matter what the intended use==.
+ Unlike the FSF, ==the OSI does not have its own set of licenses.==
+ Instead, ==the OSI has a set of principles and adds licenses to that list if they meet those principles, called open source licenses==.
+ Software that conforms to an Open Source license is, therefore, open source software.


## Example for Open Source license:
+ One type of Open Source license is the **BSD (Berkeley Software Distribution)** and its derivatives, which are much simpler than GPL. 
+ There are currently two actual "BSD" licenses ==approved by OSI==, a 2-Clause and a 3-Clause. 
+ These licenses state that you may redistribute the source and binaries as long as you maintain copyright notices and don’t imply that the original creator endorses your version. 
+ In other words "==do what you want with this software, just don’t say you wrote it.==" According to FSF, the original BSD license had a serious flaw in that it required developers to add a clause acknowledging the University of California, Berkeley in every advertisement for software licensed this way. 
+ As others copied this simple license, they included acknowledgment for their own institutions which led to over 75 such acknowledgments in some cases.


## GPL also Approved by OSI::
+ FSF licenses, such as GPLv2, are also open source licenses. 
+ However, many open source licenses such as BSD and MIT do not contain the copyleft provisions and are thus not acceptable to the FSF. 
+ These licenses are called permissive (متساهل) free software licenses because they are permissive in how you can redistribute the software. 
+ You can take BSD licensed software and include it in a closed software product as long as you give proper attribution.



---
# Creative Commons (المشاعات)


## What is Creative commons:
+ The **Creative Commons (CC)** organization has created the Creative Commons Licenses which try to address the intentions behind FOSS licenses ==for non-software entities==.
+ ==CC licenses can also be used to restrict commercial use if that is the desire of the copyright holder.== 


## Creative commons conditions:
+ The CC licenses are made up of the following set of conditions the creator can apply to their work:

	- **Attribution (BY)** – All CC licenses require that the creator must be given credit, without implying that the creator endorses the use.
    
	- **ShareAlike (SA)** – This allows others to copy, distribute, perform, and modify the work, provided they do so under the same terms.
    
	- **NonCommercial (NC)** – This allows others to distribute, display, perform, and modify the work for any purpose other than commercially.
    
	- **NoDerivatives (ND)** – This allows others to distribute, display, and perform only original copies of the work. They must obtain the creator’s permission to modify it.

	- These conditions are then combined to create the six main licenses offered by Creative Commons:
	- **Attribution (CC BY)** – Much like the BSD license, you can use CC BY content for any use but must credit the copyright holder.

	- **Attribution ShareAlike (CC BY-SA)** – A copyleft version of the Attribution license. Derived works must be shared under the same license, much like in the Free Software ideals.    

	- **Attribution NoDerivs (CC BY-ND)** – You may redistribute the content under the same conditions as CC-BY but may not change it.
    
	- **Attribution-NonCommercial (CC BY-NC)** – Just like CC BY, but you may not use it for commercial purposes.
    
	- **Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike (CC BY-NC-SA)** – Builds on the CC BY-NC license but requires that your changes be shared under the same license.
    
	- **Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs (CC BY-NC-ND)** – You are sharing the content to be used for non-commercial purposes, but people may not change the content.
    
	- **No Rights Reserved (CC0)** – This is the Creative Commons version of public domain.
    
