

For network communication to take place, data must be flowing between at least two devices. Each device sending or receiving data on the network represents what Wireshark calls an endpoint.

The communication between two endpoints is called a conversation.

Endpoints are identified by multiple addresses, which are assigned at different layers of the OSI model. For example, at the data link layer, an endpoint will have a MAC address.

At the network layer, however, the endpoint will have an IP address, which can be changed at any point.



---
# Viewing Endpoint Statistics

Open `Statistics > Endpoints`.

This window shows several helpful statistics for each endpoint the address, number of packets, and bytes transmitted and received.



---
# Viewing Network Conversations

Open `Statistics > Conversations`.

The Conversations window is similar to the Endpoints window, but the Conversations window shows two addresses per line to represent a conversation, as well as the packets and bytes transmitted to and from each device.


---
# Identifying Top Talkers with Endpoints and Conversations

Let’s look again at `lotsofweb.pcapng`.
That the endpoint responsible for the most traffic (by bytes) is the address `172.16.16.128`.
The device responsible for the most communication in this capture, it is given the designation top talker.

## determing ip address ownership with whois
The American Registry for Internet Numbers (https://whois.arin.net/ui/) reveals that Google owns this IP address.

IP address assignments are managed by different entities based on their geographic location. 
ARIN is responsible for IP address assignment in the United States and some surrounding areas, while AfriNIC manages those in Africa, RIPE handles Europe, and APNIC manages Asia/Pacific. 
Generally, you would perform a WHOIS for an IP at the website of the registry responsible for that IP. 
Of course, just by looking at an address, you are unlikely to know which regional registry is responsible for it. 
Websites like Robtex (http://robtex.com/) will do the hard work for you and query the correct registry to provide results. 
However, if you at first query the wrong registry, you will typically be pointed to the correct one



