Network data is sent between endpoints with the help of various alpha-numeric addressing systems that are often too long or complicated to remember, such as MAC address `00:16:ce:6e:8b:24`, IPv4 address `192.168.47.122`, or IPv6 address `2001:db8:a0b:12f0::1`.

_Name resolution_ (also called _name lookup_) converts one identifying address into another, mostly for the sake of making the address easier to remember. 

For example, it’s much easier to remember google.com than to remember `216.58.217.238`.

By associating easy-to-read names with these cryptic addresses.


# Enabling Name Resolution

Wireshark can use name resolution when it displays packet data to make analysis easier.

To have Wireshark use name resolution, choose `Edit > Preferences > Name Resolution`.

**==Resolve MAC addresses==** Uses the ARP protocol to attempt to convert layer 2 MAC addresses, such as `00:09:5b:01:02:03`, into layer 3 addresses, such as `10.100.12.1`. 
If attempts at these conversions fail, Wireshark will use the `ethers` file in its program directory to attempt conversion.
Wireshark’s last resort is to convert the first 3 bytes of the MAC address into the device’s IEEE-specified manufacturer name, such as `Netgear_01:02:03`.

**==Resolve transport==** names Attempts to convert a port number into a name associated with it, for example, to display port 80 as `http`. 
This is handy when you encounter an uncommon port and don’t know what service is typically associated with it.

==**Resolve network (IP) addresses**== Attempts to convert a layer 3 address, such as `192.168.1.50`, into an easy-to-read DNS name, such as `MarketingPC1.domain.com`.

==Name resolution information is not saved with the capture file, so the resolution process must take place every time you open a file.==

## Manually Initiated Name Resolution 

Wireshark also has the ability to force name resolution on a temporary, on-demand basis. 

This is done by right-clicking a packet in the Packet List pane and choosing the Edit Resolved Name option. 

The window that pops up will allow you to specify a name for an address, like a label.


