

## Reliability (مصداقية):
+ Reliability means more than your connection to the internet.


## Network architecture (بنيان):
+ The term network architecture, refers to the technologies that support the infrastructure and the programmed services and rules, or protocols, that move data across the network.


## To be Reliabilable:
+ four basic characteristics that network architects must address (يجب أن يعالج) to meet user expectations:
	- Fault Tolerance.
	+ Scalability.
	+ Quality of Service (QoS).
	+ Security.


## Fault tolerant:
+ A fault tolerant network is one that limits the number of affected devices during a failure.
+ It is built to allow quick recovery when such a failure occurs.
+ These networks depend on multiple paths between the source and destination of a message.


## Scalability:
+ A scalable (القابلة للتطوير) network expands quickly to support new users and applications.
+ It does this without degrading the performance of services that are being accessed by existing users.


## Quality of Service:
+ Quality of Service (QoS) is an increasing requirement of networks today.
+ New applications available to users over networks, such as voice and live video transmissions, create higher expectations for the quality of the delivered services.
+ For example: one user is requesting a web page, and another is on a phone call. With a QoS policy in place, the router can manage the flow of data and voice traffic, ==giving priority to voice communications.==
+ Congestion (ازدحام) occurs when the demand for bandwidth exceeds the amount available.


### Network bandwidth:
+ Network bandwidth is measured in the number of bits that can be transmitted in a single second, or bits per second (bps).


## Network Security:
+ Network administrators must address two types of network security concerns: 
	+ Network infrastructure security
	+ Information security.
+ Securing the network infrastructure includes physically securing devices that provide network connectivity and preventing unauthorized access to the management software that resides on them.
+ Network administrators must also protect the information contained within the packets being transmitted over the network, and the information stored on network attached devices.


## 3 primary requirements for Network Security:
+ **Confidentiality** (سرية): 
	+ Only the intended and authorized recipients can access and read data.
+ **Integrity** (سلامة): 
	+ Data integrity assures users that the information has not been altered (تغيير) in transmission, from origin to destination.
+ **Availability** (التوفر): 
	+ Data availability assures users of timely (في الوقت المناسب) and reliable (موثوق) access to data services.
