

Glob characters are often referred to as wild cards. 
These are symbol characters that have special meaning to the shell.


Globs are powerful because they allow you to specify patterns that match filenames in a directory. 
So instead of manipulating a single file at a time, you can easily execute commands that affect many files.


==Glob characters are interpreted by the shell itself before it attempts to run any command.
As a result, glob characters can be used with any command.==



---
# Asterisk * Character


## Echo and \*:
+ The asterisk `*` character is used to represent zero or more of any character in a filename. 
+ For example, to display all of the files in the `/etc` directory that begin with the letter `t`:
```bash
am@ubuntu:~$ echo /usr/share/do*
/usr/share/doc /usr/share/doc-base /usr/share/dot.bashrc /usr/share/dot.profile /usr/share/dot.profile.md5sums
```



---
# Question Mark ? Character


The question mark `?` character represents any single character. 
Each question mark character matches exactly one character, no more and no less.


## Example:
+ Suppose you want to display all of the files in the `/etc` directory that begin with the letter `t` and have exactly 7 characters after the `t` character:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo /etc/t???????
```
+ Glob characters can be used together to find even more complex patterns. The pattern `/etc/*????????????????????` command only matches files in the `/etc` directory with twenty or more characters in the filename:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo /etc/*???????????????????? 
/etc/bindresvport.blacklist /etc/ca-certificates.conf
```
+ The asterisk and question mark could also be used together to look for files with three-letter extensions by using the `/etc/*.???` pattern:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo /etc/*.???                
/etc/issue.net /etc/locale.gen
```



----
# Bracket \[ ] Characters



The bracket `[``]` characters are used to match a single character by representing a range of characters that are possible match characters. 


For example, the `/etc/[gu]*` pattern matches any file that begins with either a `g` or `u` character and contains zero or more additional characters


## Range of characters:
+ Brackets can also be used to a represent a range of characters. 
+ For example, the `/etc/[a-d]*` pattern matches all files that begin with any letter between and including `a` and `d`
+ The `/etc/*[0-9]*` pattern displays any file that contains at least one number
+ The range is based on the **ASCII** text table. This table defines a list of characters, arranging them in a specific standard order. 
+ If an invalid order is provided, no matches will be made:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo /etc/*[9-0]*               /etc/*[9-0]* 
```



---
# Exclamation Point ! Character



The exclamation point `!` character is used in conjunction with the square brackets to negate a range. 


For example, the pattern `/etc/[!DP]*` matches any file that does not begin with a `D` or P.


```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo /etc/[!a-t]*
/etc/X11 /etc/ucf.conf /etc/udev /etc/ufw /etc/update-motd.d /etc/updatedb.conf 
/etc/vim /etc/vtrgb /etc/wgetrc /etc/xdg
```



---
# Listing With Globs



## About the shell not the command:
+ The `ls` command is normally used to list files in a directory; as a result, using the `echo` command may seem to have been a strange choice.
+ However, there is something about the `ls` command that causes problems when listing files using glob patterns.
+ ==Keep in mind that it is the shell==, not the `echo` or `ls` command, that expands the glob pattern into corresponding file names. 
+ In other words, if the `echo /etc/a*` command is executed, what the shell did before executing the echo command was replace `a*` with all of the files and directories within the `/etc` directory that match the pattern.
+ So, if the `ls /etc/a*` command is run, what the shell would really run would be this:
```
ls /etc/adduser.conf  /etc/alternatives  /etc/apparmor  /etc/apparmor.d  /etc/apt
```


## How ls see that `ls /etc/a*`:
+ When the `ls` command sees multiple arguments, it performs a list operation on each item separately.
+ In other words, `ls /etc/a*` is the same as running the following commands consecutively:
```bash
ls /etc/adduser.conf  
ls /etc/alternatives  
ls /etc/apparmor  
ls /etc/apparmor.d  
ls /etc/apt
```


## `ls` behavior:
+ When the `ls` command sees a filename as an argument, it just displays the filename. 
+ However, for any directory, it displays the contents of the directory, not just the directory name.


## `ls` with only one directory:
+The only thing that matches the glob `/etc/x*` is the `/etc/xdg` directory.
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ ls /etc/x*                                                
autostart  systemd  user-dirs.conf  user-dirs.defaults 
```
+ So, the `ls` command only displayed the files in that directory!
+ There is a simple solution to this problem: always use the `-d` option with globs, which tells the `ls` command to display the name of directories, instead of their contents:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ls -d /etc/x*                                             
/etc/xdg
```


