
#### default scan:
- To launch a default scan, the bare minimum you need is a target. A target can be an  IP address, a hostname, or a network range
- The default Nmap scan returns a list of ports. In addition, it returns a service name from  a database distributed with Nmap and the port state for each of the listed ports.
- `nmap scanme.nmap.org`


- #### Nmap categorizes ports:
	
	- Open: 
		- Open indicates that a service is listening for connections on this port.
	
	- Closed:
		- Closed indicates that the probes were received, but it was concluded that there was no service running on this port.
	
	- Filtered:
		- A filter port indicates that a firewall, filter, or other network issue is blocking the port.
		- Filtered indicates that there were no signs that the probes were received and the state could not be established.
		- This could indicate that the probes are being dropped by some kind of filtering.
	
	- Unfiltered:
		- Unfiltered indicates that the probes were received but a state could not be established.
	
	- Open/Filtered:
		- This indicates that the port was filtered or open but the state could not be established.
	
	- Closed/Filtered:
		- This indicates that the port was filtered or closed but the state could not be established.


- #### Scanning specific port ranges:
+  Port list separated by commas: `$ nmap -p80,443 localhost`  
+ Port range denoted with hyphens: `$ nmap -p1-100 localhost`  
+ Alias for all ports from 1 to 65535: `# nmap -p- localhost`
+ Specific ports by protocol: `# nmap -pT:25,U:53 <target>`
+ Service name: `# nmap -p smtp <target> ` 
+ Service name with wildcards:` # nmap -p smtp* <target>  `
+ Only ports registered in the Nmap services database: `# nmap -p[1-65535] <target>`


- #### Selecting a network interface:
	- Nmap attempts to automatically detect your active network interface.
	- perhaps you will need to select a different interface in order to test networking issues.
	- To force Nmap to scan using a different network interface, use the -e argument.
	- `nmap -e <interface> <target>`
	- `nmap -e eth2 scanme.nmap.org`


- #### More port scanning techniques:
	- Use `nmap -h` or visit (https://nmap.org/)


- #### Target specification:
	- Any arguments that are not valid options are read as targets by Nmap.
	- There are several ways that we can handle IP ranges in Nmap
		• Multiple host specification.
			- `nmap 192.168.1.1 192.168.1.2 192.168.1.3`
		• Octet range addressing (they also support wildcards
			-`nmap 192.168.1.1-3`
			- `nmap 192.168.1.*`
		• CIDR notation.
			- `nmap 192.168.1.1/24`


- #### Excluding hosts from scans:
	- you may exclude hosts from the ranges by specifying the --exclude option:
		- `nmap 192.168.1.1-255 --exclude 192.168.1.1`
	- you can write your exclusion list in a file using the --exclude-file option:
		- `nmap --exclude-file dontscan.txt 192.168.1.1-255`



