

By default, users own the files that they create. 

While this ownership can be changed, this function requires administrative privileges. 

Although most commands usually show the user owner as a name, the operating system is associating the user ownership with the UID for that username.


	
Every file also has a group owner. 

By default, the primary group of the user who creates the file is the group owner of any new files. 

Users are allowed to change the group owner of files they own to any group that they belong to. 

Similar to user ownership, the association of a file with a group is not done internally by the operating system by name, but by the GID of the group.


## When user is deleted:

Since ownership is determined by the UID and GID associated with a file, changing the UID of a user (or deleting the user) has the effect of making a file that was originally owned by that user have no real user owner. 

When there is no UID in the `/etc/passwd` file that matches the UID of the owner of the file, then the UID (the number) is displayed as the user owner of the file instead of the username (which no longer exists).

The same occurs for groups.


## `id` command:

The `id` command can be useful for verifying which user account you are using and which groups you have available to use.

The output of the `id` command displays the UID and user account name of the current user followed by the GID and group name of the primary group and the GIDs and group names of all group memberships:

```sh
am@ubuntu:~$ id
uid=1000(am) gid=1000(am) groups=1000(am),4(adm),24(cdrom),27(sudo),30(dip),46(plugdev),100(users),118(lpadmin)

```
The user has a UID of `1000` for the user account `am`.

It shows that the primary group for this user has a GID of `1000` for the group `am`.

Because the user account and primary group account have the same numeric identifier and name, this indicates that this user is in a User Private Group (UPG).



