
**Question:** Based on the following information, what access would the user `bob` have on the file `abc.txt`?

```sh
drwxr-xr-x. 17 root root 4096 23:38 /
drwxr-xr--. 10 root root 128  03:38 /data
-rwxr-xr--.  1 bob  bob  100  21:08 /data/abc.txt
```

**Answer:** None.

**Explanation:** 
Initially it would appear that the user `bob` can view the contents of the `abc.txt` file as well as copy the file, modify its contents and run it like a program. 

This erroneous conclusion would be the result of looking solely at the file's permissions (`rwx` for the user `bob` in this case).

However, to do anything with the file, the user must first "get into" the `/data` directory. 

The permissions for `bob` for the `/data` directory are the permissions for "others" (`r--`), which means `bob` can't even use the `cd` command to get into the directory.



----

**Question:** Based on the following information, who can use the `ls` command to display the contents of the `/data` directory (`ls /data`)?

```sh
drwxr-xr-x. 17 root root 4096 23:38 /
drwxr-xr--. 10 root root 128  03:38 /data
-rwxr-xr--.  1 bob  bob  100  21:08 /data/abc.txt
```

**Answer:** All users.

**Explanation:** 
All that is required to be able to view a directory's contents is `r` permission on the directory (and the ability to access the parent directories). 

The `x` permission for all users in the `/` directory means all users can use `/` as part of a path, so everyone can get through the `/` directory to get to the `/data` directory. 

The `r` permission for all users in the /data directory means all users can use the `ls` command to view the contents. 

This includes hidden files, so the `ls -a` command also works on this directory.

However, note ==that in order to see file details== (`ls -l`), the directory would also require `x` permission. 

So while the `root` user and members of the `root` group have this access on the `/data` directory, no other users would be able to execute `ls -l /data`.

==The `r` permission allows a user to view a listing of the directory.==



----
**Question:** Based on the following information, who can delete the `/data/abc.txt` file?

```sh
drwxr-xr-x. 17 root root 4096 23:38 /
drwxrw-rw-. 10 root root 128  03:38 /data
-rwxr-xr--.  1 bob  bob  100  21:08 /data/abc.txt
```

**Answer:** Only the `root` user.


**Explanation:** 
A user needs no permissions at all on the file itself to delete a file. 

The `w` permission on the directory that the file is stored in is required to delete a file in a directory.

Based on that, it would seem that all users could delete the `/data/abc.txt` file, since everyone has `w` permission on the directory.

However, to delete a file, you must also be able to "get into" the directory. 

Since only the `root` user has `x` permission on the `/data` directory, only root can "get into" that directory to delete files in this directory.

==The `w` permission allows a user to delete files from a directory, but only if the user also has `x` permission on the directory.==



---
**Question:** 
True or False: Based on the following information the user `bob` can successfully execute the following command?
```sh
more /data/abc.txt
```

```sh
drwxr-xr-x. 17 root root 4096 23:38 /
dr-xr-x--x. 10 root root 128  03:38 /data
-rwxr-xr--.  1 bob  bob  100  21:08 /data/abc.txt
```

**Answer:** True.

**Explanation:** 
The user must have access to the directory.

The access to the directory only requires `x` permission; ==even though `r` permission would be useful to list files in a directory==, it isn't required to "get into" the directory and access files within the directory.


When the command `more /data/abc.txt` is executed, the following permissions are checked: 
+ `x` permission on the `/` directory,
+ `x` permission on the `data` directory and 
+ `r` permission on the `abc.txt` file. 
Since the user `bob` has all of these permissions, the command executes successfully.


==The `x` permission is required to "get into" a directory, but the `r` permission on the directory is not necessary unless you want to list the directory's contents.==



---

**Question:** 
True or False: Based on the following information the user `bob` can successfully execute the following command?
```sh
more /data/abc.txt
```


```sh
drwxr-xr-x. 17 root root    4096 23:38 /
dr-xr-x---. 10 sue  payroll 128  03:38 /data
-rwxr-xr--.  1 bob  bob     100  21:08 /data/abc.txt
```

**Answer:** Not enough information to determine.

**Explanation:** 
In order to access the `/data/abc.txt` file, the user `bob` needs to be able to "get into" the `/data` directory. 

This requires `x` permission, which `bob` may or may not have, depending on whether he is a member of the `payroll` group.

If `bob` is a member of the `payroll` group, then his permissions on the `/data` directory are `r-x`, and the command `more` will execute successfully.

If he isn't a member of the `payroll` group, his permissions on the `/data` directory are `---`, and the `more` command will fail.

==You must look at each file and directory permissions separately and be aware of which groups the user account belongs to.==



---
**Question:** 
True or False: Based on the following information the user `bob` can successfully execute the following command? 
```sh
more /data/abc.txt
```

```sh
drwxr-xr-x. 17 root root 4096 23:38 /
dr-xr-x---. 10 bob  bob  128  03:38 /data
----rw-rwx.  1 bob  bob  100  21:08 /data/abc.txt
```


**Answer:** False.

**Explanation:** 
Recall that if you are the owner of a file, then the only permissions that are checked are the user owner permissions. 

In this case, that would be `---` for `bob` on the `/data/abc.txt` file.

In this case, members of the `bob` group and "others" have more permissions on the file than `bob` has.

==Don't provide permissions to the group owner and "others" without applying at least the same level of access to the owner of the file.==



---

