

## Device Names:
+ The first configuration command on any device should be to give it a unique device name or hostname.
+ By default, all devices are assigned a factory default name. 
+ For example, a Cisco IOS switch is "Switch."


## Important naming guidelines for hosts:
+ Start with a letter.
+ Contain no spaces.
+ End with a letter or digit.
+ Use only letters, digits, and dashes.
+ Be less than 64 characters in length.


## Apply the names to the devices.
+ From the _privileged EXEC mode_, access the _global configuration mode_ by entering the **configure terminal** command.
```
Switch# configure terminal 
Switch(config)# hostname Sw-Floor-1 
Sw-Floor-1(config)#
```


## Password Guidelines:
+ Cisco IOS can be configured to use hierarchical mode passwords to allow different access privileges to a network device.
+ All networking devices should limit administrative access by securing privileged EXEC, user EXEC, and remote Telnet access with passwords.
+ All passwords should be encrypted and legal notifications provided.


## key points for choosing passwords:
+ Use passwords that are more than eight characters in length.
+ Use a combination of upper and lowercase letters, numbers, special characters, and/or numeric sequences.
+ Avoid using the same password for all devices.
+ Do not use common words because they are easily guessed.


## Configure Passwords:
+ When you initially connect to a device, you are in user EXEC mode. 
+ This mode is secured using the console.
+ To secure user EXEC mode access, enter `line console` configuration mode using the **`line console 0`** global configuration command.
+ The zero is used to represent the first (and in most cases the only) console interface.
```
Sw-Floor-1# configure terminal
Sw-Floor-1(config)# line console 0
```
+ Next, specify the user EXEC mode password using the **password** _password_ command.
+ Finally, enable user EXEC access using the **login** command.
```
Sw-Floor-1# configure terminal
Sw-Floor-1(config)# line console 0
Sw-Floor-1(config-line)# password cisco
Sw-Floor-1(config-line)# login
Sw-Floor-1(config-line)# end
Sw-Floor-1#
```
+ Console access will now require a password before allowing access to the user EXEC mode.


## Secure privileged EXEC access:
- To secure privileged EXEC access, use the **enable secret** _password_ global config command.
- Give password "cisco" to privileged EXEC mode
```
Sw-Floor-1# configure terminal
Sw-Floor-1(config)# enable secret cisco
Sw-Floor-1(config)# exit
Sw-Floor-1#
```


## Secure Virtual terminal (VTY):
+ Virtual terminal (VTY) lines enable remote access using Telnet or SSH to the device.
+ Many Cisco switches support up to 16 VTY lines that are numbered 0 to 15.
+ To secure VTY lines, enter line VTY mode using the    `line vty 0 15` global config command.
+ Next, specify the VTY password using the **password** _password_ command.
+ Lastly, enable VTY access using the **login** command.
```
Sw-Floor-1# configure terminal
Sw-Floor-1(config)# line vty 0 15
Sw-Floor-1(config-line)# password cisco 
Sw-Floor-1(config-line)# login 
Sw-Floor-1(config-line)# end
Sw-Floor-1#
```


## Encrypt Passwords:
+ The **startup-config** and **running-config** files display most passwords in plaintext.
+ To encrypt all plaintext passwords, use the `service password-encryption` global config command.
```
Sw-Floor-1# configure terminal
Sw-Floor-1(config)# service password-encryption
Sw-Floor-1(config)#
```
+ The command applies ***weak*** encryption to all unencrypted passwords.
+ Use the `show running-config` command to verify that passwords are now encrypted.
```
Sw-Floor-1(config)# end
Sw-Floor-1# show running-config
!
(Output omitted)
!
line con 0
password 7 094F471A1A0A
login
!
line vty 0 4
 password 7 094F471A1A0A
 login
line vty 5 15
 password 7 094F471A1A0A
 login
!
!
end
```


## Banner Messages:
+ The message that appear at the start up of netwok device.
+ use the `banner motd # _the message of the day_ #` global config command.
+ The “#” in the command syntax is called the delimiting character. It is entered before and after the message. The delimiting character can be any character as long as it does not occur in the message.
```
Sw-Floor-1# configure terminal 
Sw-Floor-1(config)# banner motd #Authorized Access Only#
```
