

## Manual IP Address Configuration for End Devices:
+ IPv4 address information can be entered into end devices manually, or automatically using Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP).
+ To manually configure an IPv4 address on a Windows host, open: 
	+ **Control Panel >** 
	+ **Network Sharing Center >** 
	+ Change adapter settings and choose the adapter.
	+ Next right-click and select **Properties** to display the **Local Area Connection Properties**.


## Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP):
+ End devices typically default to using DHCP for automatic IPv4 address configuration.
+ DHCP is a technology that is used in almost every network.
+ IPv6 uses DHCPv6 and SLAAC (Stateless Address Autoconfiguration) for dynamic address allocation.


## Switch Virtual Interface Configuration:
+ To access the switch remotely, an IP address and a subnet mask must be configured on the switch virtual interface (SVI).
+ To configure an SVI on a switch, use the `interface vlan 1` global configuration command.
+ Vlan 1 is not an actual physical interface but a virtual one.
+ Next assign an IPv4 address using the :
	+ `ip address $ip-address $subnet-mask interface` configuration command.
+ Finally, enable the virtual interface using the **no shutdown** interface configuration command.
+ Similar to a Windows hosts, switches configured with an IPv4 address will typically also need to have a default gateway assigned.
+ This can be done using the `ip default-gateway $ip-address` global configuration command.
+ The _ip-address_ parameter would be the IPv4 address of the local router on the network.
```
Sw-Floor-1# configure terminal
Sw-Floor-1(config)# interface vlan 1 
Sw-Floor-1(config-if)# ip address 192.168.1.20 255.255.255.0
Sw-Floor-1(config-if)# no shutdown 
Sw-Floor-1(config-if)# exit 
Sw-Floor-1(config)# ip default-gateway 192.168.1.1
```
