
## What is the path:
+ ==A path is a list of directories separated by the== `/` ==character.== 
+ If you think of the filesystem as a map, paths are the directory addresses, which include step-by-step navigation directions; they can be used to indicate the location of any file within the filesystem.
+ There are two types of paths: absolute and relative.



---
# Absolute (مطلق) Paths


==Absolute paths allow the user to specify the exact location of a directory.== 
==It always starts at the root directory==, and therefore it always begins with the `/` character. 
The path `/home/sysadmin` is an absolute path; it tells the system to begin at the root `/` directory, move into the `home` directory, and then into the `sysadmin` directory.



---
# Relative (نسبي) Paths



==Relative paths start from the current directory.== 
A relative path gives directions to a file relative to the current location in the filesystem.
They do not start with the / character.
Instead, they start with the name of a directory.
More specifically, relative paths start with the name of a directory contained within the current directory.



---
# Shortcuts


## The .. Characters:
+ Regardless of which directory the user is in, two period `..` characters always represents one directory higher relative to the current directory, sometimes referred to as the parent directory.


# The `.` Character:
+ Regardless of which directory the user is in, the single period `.` character always represents the current directory.


