https://portswigger.net/web-security/csrf
-----
Cross-site request forgery (also known as CSRF) is a web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to induce users to perform actions that they do not intend to perform. 

It allows an attacker to partly circumvent the same origin policy, which is designed to prevent different websites from interfering with each other.

In a successful CSRF attack, the attacker causes the victim user to carry out an action unintentionally عن غير قصد.

----
For a CSRF attack to be possible, **==three key conditions must be in place==**:

**A relevant action.** 
There is an action within the application that the attacker has a reason to induce.

**Cookie-based session handling.** 
Performing the action involves issuing one or more HTTP requests, and the application relies solely on session cookies to identify the user who has made the requests.

**No unpredictable request parameters.** 
The requests that perform the action do not contain any parameters whose values the attacker cannot determine or guess.

With these conditions in place, the attacker can construct a web page containing the following HTML:
```html
<html>
    <body>
        <form 
	        action="https://vulnerable-website.com/email/change" 
	        method="POST">
            <input 
	            type="hidden" 
	            name="email" 
	            value="pwned@evil-user.net"/>
        </form>
        
        <script>
            document.forms[0].submit();
        </script>
        
    </body>
</html>
```
If a victim user visits the attacker's web page, the following will happen:
- The attacker's page will trigger an HTTP request to the vulnerable website.
- If the user is logged in to the vulnerable website, their browser will automatically include their session cookie in the request (assuming [SameSite cookies](https://portswigger.net/web-security/csrf#common-defences-against-csrf) are not being used).
- The vulnerable website will process the request in the normal way, treat it as having been made by the victim user, and change their email address.

---
# What is the difference between XSS and CSRF?
[Cross-site scripting](https://portswigger.net/web-security/cross-site-scripting) (or XSS) allows an attacker to execute arbitrary JavaScript within the browser of a victim user.

[Cross-site request forgery](https://portswigger.net/web-security/csrf) (or CSRF) allows an attacker to induce a victim user to perform actions that they do not intend to.


