
The `setgid` permission is similar to `setuid`, but it makes use of the group owner permissions. 

There are two forms of `setgid` permissions: `setgid` on a file and `setgid` on a directory.

The behavior of `setgid` depends on whether it is set on a file or directory.



---
# Setgid on Files

The `setgid` permission on a file is very similar to `setuid`; it allows a user to run an executable binary file in a manner that provides them additional (temporary) group access.

The system allows the user running the command to effectively belong to the group that owns the file, but only in the `setgid` program.


---
# Setgid on Directories


When set on a directory, the `setgid` permission causes files created in the directory to be owned by the group that owns the directory automatically. 

This behavior is contrary to how new file group ownership would normally function, as by default new files are group owned by the primary group of the user who created the file.


In addition, any directories created within a directory with the `setgid` permission set are not only owned by the group that owns the `setgid` directory, but the new directory automatically has `setgid` set on it as well. 

In other words, if a directory is `setgid`, then any directories created within that directory inherit the `setgid` permission.


By default when the `ls` command is executed on a directory, it outputs information on the files contained within the directory. 

==To view information about the directory itself add the `-d` option==

In a long listing, the setgid permission is represented by an `s` in the group execute position. 

A lowercase `s` means that both `setgid` and group execute permissions are set

An uppercase `S` means that only `setgid` and not group execute permission is set.



---
# Setting Setgid

Use the following syntax to add the `setgid` permission symbolically:

```sh
chmod g+s <file|directory>
chmod g-s <file|directory>
```

To add the `setgid` permission numerically, add 2000 to the file's existing permissions

```sh
chmod 2775 <file|directory>
chmod 0775 <file|directory>
```