

The long file name is a not an ideal choice for you to type, but the file must reside in this location. 

It is also updated frequently, so you can't simply make a copy of the file.

In a situation like this, links come in handy.
You can create a file that is linked to the one that is deeply buried. 
This new file could be placed in the home directory or any other convenient location.
When you access the linked file, it accesses the contents of the `original` file.



----
# Creating Hard Links

To understand hard links, it is helpful to understand a little bit about how the ==file system== keeps track of files. 

## Metadata

For every file created, there is a block of data on the file system that stores the metadata of the file. 

Metadata includes information about the file like the permissions, ownership, and timestamps.

Metadata does not  include the file name or the contents of the file, but it does include just about all other information about the file.


## inode table

This metadata is called the file's inode table. 

The inode table also includes pointers to the other blocks on the file system called data blocks where the data is stored.

==Every file on a partition has a unique identification number called an inode number. ==

The `ls -i` command displays the inode number of a file.

```sh
am@ubuntu:~$ ls -i tempo/file.text
15097756 tempo/file.text
```

Like users and groups, what defines a file is not its name, but rather the number it has been assigned. 

The inode table does not include the file name. 

For each file, there is also an entry that is stored in a directory's data area (data block) that includes an association between an inode number and a file name.


## Count number

the number that appears for each file between the permissions and the user owner is the link count number:

```sh
am@ubuntu:~$ ls -l tempo/file.text
-rw-rw-r-x 1 am am 0 May 28 19:35 tempo/file.text
```

The link count number indicates how many hard links have been created.

When the number is a value of one, then the file has only one name linked to the inode.


## Create hard link

To create hard links, the `ln` command is used with two arguments. 

The first argument is an existing file name to link to, called a target, and the second argument is the new file name to link to the target.

```sh
ln target link_name
```

```sh
am@ubuntu:~$ ls -li tempo/*file.text 
15097756 -rw-rw-r-x 2 am am 0 May 28 19:35 tempo/file.text
15097756 -rw-rw-r-x 2 am am 0 May 28 19:35 tempo/h_link_to_file.text
```


## Example

In the data block for the `/etc` directory, there would be a list of all of the files in this directory and their corresponding inode number. 
For example:

|File Name|Inode Number|
|---|---|
|`passwd`|123|
|`shadow`|175|
|`group`|144|
|`gshadow`|897|

When you attempt to access the `/etc/passwd` file, the system uses this table to translate the file name into an inode number. 

It then retrieves the file data by looking at the information in the inode table for the file.

Hard links are two file names that point to the same inode. 

For example, consider the following directory entries:

|File Name|Inode Number|
|---|---|
|`passwd`|123|
|`mypasswd`|123|
|`shadow`|175|
|`group`|144|
|`gshadow`|897|

Because both the `passwd` and `mypasswd` file have the same inode number, they essentially are the same file. 

You can access the file data using either file name.


---
# Creating Symbolic Links


