 
 
The processor is the brain of the computer, where the execution of code takes place and where most calculations are done.
It is directly connected (soldered) to the motherboard, as motherboards are typically configured to work with specific types of processors.


## Multi core and multi processor:
+ If a hardware system has more than one processor, the system is referred to as a multiprocessor. 
+ If more than one processor is combined into a single overall processor chip, then it is called multi-core.


## Types of processors:
+ Although support is available for more types of processors in Linux than any other operating system, there are primarily just two types of processors used on desktop and server computers: `x86` and `x86_64`. 
+ On an `x86` system, the system processes data 32 bits at a time; on an `x86_64` the system processes data 64 bits at a time. 
+ An `x86_64` system is also capable of processing data 32 bits at a time in a backward compatible mode.
+ One of the main advantages of a 64-bit system is the ability to work with more memory, while other advantages include increased efficiency of processing and increased security.


## Intel processors:
+ **Intel** originated the `x86` family of processors in 1978 with the release of the 8086 processor. 
+ Since that time, Intel has produced many other processors that are improvements to the original 8086; they are known generically as `x86` processors.
+ These processors include the 80386 (i386), 80486 (i486), the Pentium series (i586) and the Pentium Pro series (i686).
+ In addition to Intel, other companies such as AMD and Cyrix have also produced `x86` compatible processors.


### To see which family the CPU of the current system belongs to, use the `arch` command:
```bash
am@ubuntu:~$ arch
x86_64
```
For more information concerning the CPU, use the `lscpu` command:
```sh
am@ubuntu:~$ lscpu
Architecture:            x86_64
  CPU op-mode(s):        32-bit, 64-bit
  Address sizes:         39 bits physical, 48 bits virtual
  Byte Order:            Little Endian
CPU(s):                  8
  On-line CPU(s) list:   0-7
Vendor ID:               GenuineIntel
  Model name:            11th Gen Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-1165G7 @ 2.80GHz
    CPU family:          6
    Model:               140
    Thread(s) per core:  2
    Core(s) per socket:  4
    Socket(s):           1
    Stepping:            1
    CPU(s) scaling MHz:  17%
    CPU max MHz:         4700.0000
    CPU min MHz:         400.0000
    BogoMIPS:            5606.40
    Flags:               fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mc
                         a cmov....
```
+ The first line of this output shows that the CPU is being used in a 64-bit mode, as the architecture reported is `x86_64`. 
+ The second line of output shows that the CPU is capable of operating in either a 32- or 64-bit mode

