
Hard drives, also called hard disks, disk devices, or storage devices, may be attached to the system in a number of ways; the controller may be integrated into the motherboard, on a PCI card, or as a USB device


## Partitions:

Hard drives are divided into one or more partitions. 

==A partition is a logical division of a hard drive, designed to take a large amount of available storage space and break it up into smaller areas.== 

While it is common on Microsoft Windows to have a single partition for each hard drive, on Linux distributions, multiple partitions per hard drive is common.


## Partitioning technology:

Some hard drives make use of a partitioning technology called ==Master Boot Record (MBR)== while others make use of a partitioning type called ==GUID Partitioning Table (GPT)==.

The MBR type of partitioning has been used since the early days of the Personal Computer (PC), and the GPT type has been available since the year 2000.

The GPT disks use a newer type of partitioning, which allows the user to divide the disk into more partitions than what MBR supports. 

GPT also allows having partitions which can be larger than two terabytes (MBR does not). 


## Command to work with dicks:

An old term used to describe an internal hard disk is fixed disk, as the disk is fixed (not removable). 

This term gave rise to several command names: the `fdisk`, `cfdisk` and `sfdisk` commands, which are tools for working with the MBR partitioned disks.

The tools for managing GPT disks are named similarly to their `fdisk` counterparts: `gdisk`, `cgdisk`, and `sgdisk`.

There is also a family of tools that attempt to support both MBR and GPT type disks. This set of tools includes the `parted` command and the graphical `gparted` tool.



## Device files:

Hard drives are associated with file names (called device files) that are stored in the `/dev` directory.
Each device file name is made up of multiple parts.

1. **File Type**:
	+ The file name is prefixed based on the different types of hard drives.
	+ IDE hard drives begin with `hd`, while USB, SATA and SCSI hard drives begin with `sd`.
	+ SATA: Serial Advanced Technology Attachment.
	+ SCSI:  Small Computer System Interface.
	+ IDE: Intelligent Drive Electronics.
    
2. **Device Order**:
	+ Each hard drive is then assigned a letter which follows the prefix. 
	+ For example, the first IDE hard drive would be named `/dev/hda` and the second would be `/dev/hdb`, and so on.
    
3. **Partition**:
	+ Finally, each partition on a disk is given a unique numeric indicator. 
	+ For example, if a USB hard drive has two partitions, they could be associated with the `/dev/sda1` and `/dev/sda2` device files.


The following example shows a system that has three `sd` devices: `/dev/sda`, `/dev/sdb` and `/dev/sdc`. 
Also, there are two partitions on the first device, as evidenced by the `/dev/sda1` and `/dev/sda2` files, and one partition on the second device, as evidenced by the `/dev/sdb1` file:
```sh
root@localhost:~$ ls /dev/sd*
/dev/sda /dev/sda1  /dev/sda2  /dev/sdb  /dev/sdb1  /dev/sdc
```


## `fdisk` command:

The `fdisk` command can be used to display further 
information about the partitions:

```sh
am@ubuntu:~$ ls /dev/sd*
/dev/sda  /dev/sda1

am@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l /dev/sda
Disk /dev/sda: 119.24 GiB, 128035676160 bytes, 250069680 sectors
Disk model: SAMSUNG MZ7PD128
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disklabel type: gpt
Disk identifier: 1CE54BAF-969E-4DFF-ACA4-E015B89EDB05

Device     Start       End   Sectors   Size Type
/dev/sda1     34 250068991 250068958 119.2G Linux filesystem

```
