## Switch Fundamentals:
+ A Layer 2 Ethernet switch uses Layer 2 MAC addresses to make forwarding decisions.
+ It is completely unaware of the data (protocol) being carried in the data portion of the frame, such as an IPv4 packet, an ARP message, or an IPv6 ND packet.
+ The switch makes its forwarding decisions based solely on the Layer 2 Ethernet MAC addresses.
+ ==An Ethernet **switch** examines its MAC address table to make a forwarding decision for each frame.==
+ Unlike legacy Ethernet hubs that repeat bits out all ports except the incoming port.


## CAM table:
+ The MAC address table is sometimes referred to as a content addressable memory (CAM) table.
+ While the term CAM table is fairly common but MAC address table is good.


## Learn and Forward:
+ The switch dynamically builds the MAC address table by examining (فحص) the source MAC address of the frames received on a port.
+ The switch forwards frames by searching for a match between the destination MAC address in the frame and an entry in the MAC address table.


### Examine the Source MAC Address:
+ Every frame that enters a switch is checked for new information to learn.
+ It does this by examining the source MAC address of the frame and the port number where the frame entered the switch.
+ If the source MAC address does not exist, it is added to the table along with the incoming port number.
+ If the source MAC address does exist, the switch updates the refresh timer for that entry in the table.
+ By default, most Ethernet switches keep an entry in the table for ***5 minutes***.


### Find the Destination MAC Address:
+ If the destination MAC address is a unicast address, the switch will look for a match between the destination MAC address of the frame and an entry in its MAC address table.
+ If the destination MAC address is in the table, it will forward the frame out the specified port.
+ ==If the destination MAC address is not in the table, the switch will forward the frame out all ports except the incoming port== (**This is called an unknown unicast**).
+ If the destination MAC address is a **broadcast** or a **multicast**, the frame is also flooded out all ports except the incoming port.


## Filtering Frames:
+ As a switch receives frames from different devices.
+ It is able to populate (يملأ) its MAC address table by examining the source MAC address of every frame.
+ When the MAC address table of the switch contains the destination MAC address, it is able to filter the frame and forward out a ***single*** port.


## Switch jop:
+ ==Switches are used to interconnect and deliver information to computers on **local** area networks.==
+ Switches deliver Ethernet frames to host devices identified by network interface card MAC addresses.


## Show MAC table on switch:
```
show mac address-table
```


## Clear MAC address on switch:
```
clear mac address-table dynamic
```


