
Before the SameSite mechanism was introduced, browsers sent **==cookies==** in every request to the domain that issued them, even if the request was triggered by an unrelated third-party website.

SameSite works by enabling browsers and website owners to limit which cross-site requests, if any, should include specific cookies.

This can help to reduce users' [exposure to](https://translate.google.com/?sl=en&tl=ar&text=exposure%20to&op=translate) CSRF attacks, which [induce](https://translate.google.com/?sl=en&tl=ar&text=induce&op=translate) the victim's browser to issue a request that triggers a harmful action on the vulnerable website.

==As these requests typically require a cookie associated with the victim's authenticated session, the attack will fail if the browser doesn't include this==.

All major browsers currently support the following SameSite restriction levels:
- `Strict`
- `Lax`
- `None`

Developers can manually configure a restriction level for each cookie they set, giving them more control over when these cookies are used.

To do this, they just have to include the `SameSite` attribute in the `Set-Cookie` ==**response header**==, along with their preferred value:
```http
Set-Cookie: session=0F8tgdOhi9ynR1M9wa3ODa; SameSite=Strict
```

#### Note
If the website issuing the cookie doesn't explicitly set a `SameSite` attribute, Chrome automatically applies `Lax` restrictions by default. 

This means that the cookie is only sent in cross-site requests that meet specific criteria, even though the developers never configured this behavior.


---
# Strict

If a **==cookie==** is set with the `SameSite=Strict` attribute, browsers will not send it in any cross-site requests.

In simple terms, ==this means that if the **target site** for the request does not match the **site currently shown in the browser's address** bar, it will not include the cookie==.

This is recommended when setting cookies that enable the [bearer](https://translate.google.com/?sl=en&tl=ar&text=bearer&op=translate) to modify data or perform other sensitive actions, such as accessing specific pages that are only available to authenticated users.

Although this is the most secure option, it can negatively impact the user experience in cases where cross-site functionality is desirable.


---
# Lax

`Lax` SameSite restrictions mean that browsers will send the cookie in cross-site requests, but only if both of the following conditions are met:

- The request uses the `GET` method.
    
- The request resulted from a top-level navigation by the user, such as clicking on a link.

This means that the cookie is **not** included in cross-site `POST` requests, for example.

As `POST` requests are generally used to perform actions that modify data or state (at least according to best practice), they are much more likely to be the target of CSRF attacks.


---
# None

If a cookie is set with the `SameSite=None` attribute, this effectively disables SameSite restrictions altogether, regardless of the browser. 

As a result, browsers will send this cookie in all requests to the site that issued it, even those that were triggered by completely unrelated third-party sites.

When the "Lax-by-default" behavior was first adopted by Chrome, this had the side-effect of breaking a lot of existing web functionality. 

As a quick workaround, some websites have opted to simply disable SameSite restrictions on all cookies, including potentially sensitive ones.

When setting a cookie with `SameSite=None`, the website must also include the `Secure` attribute, which ensures that the cookie is only sent in encrypted messages over HTTPS. 
==Otherwise, browsers will reject the cookie and it won't be set==.

```http
Set-Cookie: trackingId=0F8tgdOhi9ynR1M9wa3ODa; SameSite=None; Secure
```


