

UNIX is the operating system that Linux was modeled after. The developers of UNIX created help documents called man pages (short for manual pages).

Man pages are used to describe the features of commands. They provide a basic description of the purpose of the command, as well as details regarding available options.


---
# Viewing Man Pages



To view a man page for a command, use the `man` command:
```bash
man command
```


The `man` command uses a pager to display documents. Usually, this pager is the `less` command, but on some distributions, it may be the `more` command. Both are very similar in how they perform.
To view the various movement commands that are available, use the **H** key while viewing a man page.
This displays a help page.


---
# Sections Within Man Pages


## Common sections:
+ Man pages are broken into sections.
+ Each section is designed to provide specific information about a command. 
+ While there are common sections seen in most man pages, some developers also create sections only available on specific man pages.
+ The following describes some of the more common sections found in man pages:
	+ **NAME**.
	+ **SYNOPSIS** (ملخص).
	+ **DESCRIPTION**.
	+ **OPTIONS**.
	+ **FILES**.
	+ **AUTHOR**.
	+ **REPORTING BUGS**.
	+ **COPYRIGHT**.
	+ **SEE ALSO**.


### Name:
+ Provides the name of the command and a very brief description.


### SYNOPSIS:
+ Provides examples of how the command is executed.
+ The `SYNOPSIS` section of a man page can be difficult to understand but is very important because it provides a concise example of how to use the command.
```bash
SYNOPSIS 
     cal [-31jy] [-A number] [-B number] [-d yyyy-mm] [[month] year] 
```
+ The square brackets `[ ]` are used to indicate that this feature is not required to run the command. For example, `[-31jy]` means options `-3`, `-1`, `-j`, or `-y` are available, but not required for the `cal` command to function properly.
+ The last set of square brackets `[[month] year]` demonstrates another feature; it means a year can be specified by itself, but to specify a month the year must also be specified.
+ Another component of the `SYNOPSIS` that might cause some confusion can be seen in the man page of the `date` command:
```bash
SYNOPSIS                                                    
       date [OPTION]... [+FORMAT]                                      
       date [-u|--utc|--universal] [MMDDhhmm[[CC]YY][.ss]]
```
+ In this `SYNOPSIS` there are two syntaxes for the `date` command. 
+ The first one is used to display the date on the system while the second is used to set the date.
+ The ellipsis `...` following `[OPTION]` indicates that one or more of the items before it may be used.
+ Additionally, the `[-u|--utc|--universal]` notation means that either the `-u` option or the `--utc` option or the `--universal` option may be used.
+ Typically this means that all three options really do the same thing, but sometimes the use of the `|` character is used to indicate that the options can't be used in combination, like a logical “or".


### DESCRIPTION:
+ Provides a more detailed description of the command.



### **OPTIONS**:
+ Lists the options for the command as well as a description of how they are used.
+ Often this information is found in the `DESCRIPTION` section and not in a separate `OPTIONS` section.


### **FILES**:
+ Lists the files that are associated with the command as well as a description of how they are used.
+ These files may be used to configure the command's more advanced features.
+ Often this information is found in the `DESCRIPTION` section and not in a separate `FILES` section.


### **AUTHOR**:
+ Provides the name of the person who created the man page and (sometimes) how to contact the person.


### **REPORTING BUGS**:
+ Provides details on how to report problems with the command.


### **COPYRIGHT**:
+ Provides basic copyright information.


### **SEE ALSO**:
+ Provides you with an idea of where you can find additional information.
+ This often includes other commands that are related to this command.



---
# Searching Man Pages



To search a man page for a term, type the `/` character followed by a search term, then hit the **Enter** key. 
The program searches from the current location down towards the bottom of the page to try to locate and highlight the term.
If a match is found, it will be highlighted.
To move to the next match of the term, press **n**.
To return to a previous match of the term, press **Shift**+**N**. 
If the term is not found, or upon reaching the end of the matches, the program will report `Pattern not found (press Return)`.



---
# Man Pages Categorized by Sections


## Type of commands:
+ User commands
+ System commands
+ Administration commands


## Sections of man page:
+ To organize all of these man pages, they are categorized by sections.
+ By default, there are nine sections of man pages:
	1. General Commands
	2. System Calls
	3. Library Calls
	4. Special Files
	5. File Formats and Conventions
	6. Games
	7. Miscellaneous
	8. System Administration Commands
	9. Kernel Routines
+ The `man` command searches each of these sections in order until it finds the first match.
+ For example, if you execute the command `man cal`, the first section (General Commands) is searched for a man page called `cal`. If not found, then the second section is searched. If no man page is found after searching all sections, an error message is returned:


## Understand the number after the command:
+ To determine which section a specific man page belongs to, look at the numeric value on the first line of the output of the man page.
+ For example, the `ls` command belongs to the first section of man pages:
```bash
LS(1)
```


## Same name for two man page:
+ Sometimes there are man pages with the same name in different sections. 
+ In these cases, it may be necessary to specify the section of the correct man page.
+ For example, there is a command called `passwd` that allows you to change your password. 
+ There is also a file called `passwd` that stores account information. 
+ Both the command and the file have a man page.
+ The `passwd` command is a user command, so the associated man page is in the first section.
+ The `man` command displays the man page for the `passwd` command by default:


## `man -f` Search for man page:
+ So how do you display the man page for the passwd file? First, determine in which section the man page is located.
+ To search for man pages by name, use the `-f` option to the `man` command.
+  It displays man pages that match, or partially match, a specific name and provide the section number and a brief description of each man page:
```bash
am@ubuntu:~$ man -f passwd
passwd (1)           - change user password
passwd (1ssl)        - OpenSSL application commands
passwd (5)           - the password file

```


## `whatis` command:
+ On most Linux distributions, the `whatis` command does the same thing as `man -f`.


## Specify a different section:
+ To specify a different section, provide the number of the section as the first argument of the man command.
+ The following command displays the passwd man page located in section 5, which is associated with the `passwd` file:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ man 5 passwd
```


## Search for man page:
+ Unfortunately, you won't always remember the exact name of the man page that you want to view. Fortunately, each man page has a short description associated with it.
+ The `-k` option to the `man` command searches both the names and descriptions of the man pages for a keyword.
+ For example, to find a man page that displays how to copy directories, search for the keyword `copy`:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ man -k copy                                               
cp (1)               - copy files and directories                               
cpgr (8)             - copy with locking the given file to the password or gr...
cpio (1)             - copy files to and from archives                          
cppw (8)             - copy with locking the given file to the password or gr...
dd (1)               - convert and copy a file                                  
debconf-copydb (1)   - copy a debconf database                                  
install (1)          - copy files and set attributes                            
scp (1)              - secure copy (remote file copy program)                   
ssh-copy-id (1)      - use locally available keys to authorize logi
```


