

The `whatis` command (or `man -f`) returns what section a man page is stored in. 
This command occasionally returns unusual output, such as the following:

```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ whatis ls                                              
ls (1)               - list directory contents 
ls (lp)              - list directory contents
```

Based on this output, there are two `ls` commands that list directory contents. The simple reason for this is that UNIX had two main variants, which resulted in some commands being developed "in parallel" and therefore behaving differently on different variants of UNIX. Many modern distributions of Linux include commands from both UNIX variants.

This does, however, pose a bit of a problem: when the `ls` command is typed, which command is executed?



---
# Where Are These Commands Located?


To search for the location of a command or the man pages for a command, use the `whereis` command. 
This command searches for commands, source files and man pages in specific locations where these files are typically stored:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ whereis ls 
ls: /bin/ls /usr/share/man/man1p/ls.1.gz /usr/share/man/man1/ls.1.gz
```
Man pages are easily distinguished from commands as they are typically compressed with a program called `gzip`, resulting in a filename that ends in `.gz`. 
Notice there are two man pages listed above, but only one command: `/bin/ls`.
This is because the `ls` command can be used with the options/features that are described by either man page. 
So, when learning what can be done with the `ls` command, it may be interesting to explore both man pages.
Fortunately, this is more of an exception as most commands only have one man page.



---
## Find Any File or Directory


The `whereis` command is specifically designed to find commands and man pages.
While this is useful, it is often necessary to find a file or directory, not just files that are commands or man pages.


## `locate` command:
+ To find any file or directory, use the `locate` command. This command searches a database of all files and directories that were on the system when the database was created. 
+ Typically, the command to generate this database is run nightly.
+ Any files created today will not be searchable with the `locate` command.


## Limitation:
+ Also note that when using the locate command as a regular user, the output may be limited due to file permissions. If the user that is logged in doesn’t have access to a file or directory on the filesystem due to permissions, the locate command won't return those names. This security feature is designed to keep users from "exploring" the filesystem by using the locate database. 
+ The root user can search for any file in the locate database.If root access is available, it’s possible to update the `locate` database manually by running the `updatedb` command. 
+ Regular users cannot update the database file.


## `locate -c` option:
+ The output of the locate command can be quite large. When searching for a filename, such as `passwd`, the `locate` command produces every file that contains the string `passwd`, not just files named passwd.
+ In many cases, it is helpful to start by finding out how many files match. Do this by using the `-c` option to the `locate` command:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ locate -c passwd             
98
```
+ To limit the output produced by the locate command use the `-b` option.
+ This option only includes listings that have the search term in the basename of the filename.
+ ==The basename is the portion of the filename not including the directory names==.
+ There will still be many results when the `-b` option is used. 
+ To limit the output even further, place a `\` character in front of the search term. This character limits the output to filenames that exactly match the term:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ locate -b "\passwd"             
/etc/passwd                                
/etc/pam.d/passwd       
/usr/bin/passwd            
/usr/share/doc/passwd     
/usr/share/lintian/overrides/passwd
```


