
## What is a command?:
+ The simplest answer is that a command is a software program that, when executed on the CLI, performs an action on the computer.
+ To execute a command, the first step is to type the name of the command. 
+ Click in the terminal on the right.
+ Type `ls` and hit **Enter**.


## Command form:
+ Many commands can be used by themselves with no further input.
+ Some commands require additional input to run correctly.
+ This additional input comes in two forms: options and arguments.
+ The typical format for a command is as follows:
```
command [options] [arguments]
```
+ Options are used to modify the core behavior of a command while arguments are used to provide additional information (such as a filename or a username).
+ Each option and argument is normally separated by a space, although options can often be combined.



---
# Arguments


## Example of argument:
+ An argument can be used to specify something for the command to act upon.
+ If the `ls` command is given the name of a directory as an argument, it lists the contents of that directory. 
+ In the following example, the `/etc/ppp` directory is used as an argument; the resulting output is a list of files contained in that directory:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ ls /etc/ppp                                 
ip-down.d  ip-up.d             
```                                   
+ The `ls` command also accepts multiple arguments.


---
# Options


Options can be used with commands to expand or modify the way a command behaves

==The **order** of the combined options **isn't** important==. 
The output of all of these examples would be the same:
```bash
ls -l -r
ls -rl
ls -lr
```


Typically, older commands use single letters while newer commands use complete words for options. Single-letter options are preceded by a single dash `-` character, like the `-h` option. 
Full-word options are preceded by two dash `--` characters.



---
# History


When a command is executed in the terminal, it is stored in a history list. 
This is designed to make it easy to execute the same command, later eliminating the need to retype the entire command.


To view the history list of a terminal, use the `history` command


If the desired command is in the list that the `history` command generates, it can be executed by typing an exclamation point `!` character and then the number next to the command
```bash
!3
```


## Last three command:
+ If the `history` command is passed a number as an argument, it outputs that number of previous commands from the history list. For example, to show the last three commands:
```bash
history 3
```


## -3 command:
+ To execute the nth command from the bottom of the history list, type `!-n` and hit Enter.
+ For example, to execute the third command from the bottom of the history list execute the following:
```bash
!-3
```


## Last used command:
+ To execute the most recent command type `!!` and hit **Enter**


## Last used of `ls` command:
+ To execute the most recent iteration of a specific command, type `!` followed by the name of the command and hit **Enter**. 
+ For example, to execute the most recent `ls` command:
```bash
!ls
```


## Clear history:
```
history -c
```


----
