

A variable is a feature that allows the user or the shell to store data.
This data can be used to provide critical system information or to change the behavior of how the Bash shell (or other commands) work. 
Variables are given names and stored temporarily in memory.
There are two types of variables used in the Bash shell: `local` and `environment`.



---
# Local Variables


## Local variables:
+ ==Local or shell variables exist only in the current shell, and cannot affect other commands or applications==.
+ When the user closes a terminal window or shell, all of the variables are lost. 
+ They are often associated with user-based tasks and are lowercase by convention.
+ To set the value of a variable, use the following assignment expression.
+ If the variable already exists, the value of the variable is modified.
+ If the variable name does not already exist, the shell creates a new local variable and sets the value:
```bash
variable=value
```
+ Example:
```bash
am@ubuntu:~$ val="Bash shell"
am@ubuntu:~$ echo $val
Bash shell
```



---
# Environment Variables


## Global variables:
+ Environment variables, also called global variables, are available system-wide, in all shells used by Bash when interpreting commands and performing tasks.
+ The system automatically recreates environment variables when a new shell is opened.
+ Examples include the `PATH`, `HOME`, and `HISTSIZE` variables.
+ The `HISTSIZE` variable defines how many previous commands to store in the history list.
+ The command in the example below displays the value of the `HISTSIZE` variable:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo $HISTSIZE
1000
```
+ To modify the value of an existing variable, use the assignment expression:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ HISTSIZE=500                                           
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo $HISTSIZE                              
500  
```


## `env` command:
+ When run without arguments, the `env` command outputs a list of the ==environment== variables.
```bash
am@ubuntu:~$ env | less
```


## `export` command:
+ The `export` command is used to turn a local variable into an environment variable.
+ After exporting `variable1`, it is now an environment variable. It is now found in the search through the environment variables:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ export variable1                                  
sysadmin@localhost:~$ env | grep variable1
variable1=Something
```
+ The `export` command can also be used to make a variable an environment variable upon its creation by using the assignment expression as the argument:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ export variable2='Else'                           
sysadmin@localhost:~$ env | grep variable2                             
variable2=Else
```
+ To change the value of an environment variable, use the assignment expression:
```bash
am@ubuntu:~$ variable1=$variable1' '$variable2     
am@ubuntu:~$ echo $variable1                       
Something Else

am@ubuntu:~$ val1="ab"
am@ubuntu:~$ val2="CD"
am@ubuntu:~$ val3="$val1   $val2"
am@ubuntu:~$ echo $val3
ab CD

```
+ Exported variables can be removed using the `unset` command:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ unset variable2
```



---
# Path Variable



## About path variable:
+ One of the most important Bash shell variables to understand is the `PATH` variable. 
+ It contains a list that defines which directories the shell looks in to find commands.
+ If a valid command is entered and the shell returns a "command not found" error, it is because the Bash shell was unable to locate a command by that name in any of the directories included in the path.
```bash
am@ubuntu:~$ echo $PATH
/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games:/snap/bin:/snap/bin
```
+ Each directory in the list is separated by a colon.


## Append to PATH:
+ ‌⁠​​⁠​ If custom software is installed on the system it may be necessary to modify the `PATH` to make it easier to execute these commands. For example, the following will add and verify the `/usr/bin/custom` directory to the `PATH` variable:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ PATH=/usr/bin/custom:$PATH                        
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo $PATH                                       
/usr/bin/custom:/home/sysadmin/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games
```


