

One way to learn more about a command is to look at where it comes from.
The `type` command can be used to determine information about command type.

There are several different sources of commands within the shell of your CLI including internal commands, external commands, aliases, and functions.



---
# Internal Commands



Also called built-in commands, internal commands are built into the shell itself.
A good example is the `cd` (change directory) command as it is part of the Bash shell.
When a user types the `cd` command, the Bash shell is already executing and knows how to interpret it, requiring no additional programs to be started.
```bash
am@ubuntu:~$ type cd
cd is a shell builtin

```



---
# External Commands



External commands are binary executables stored in directories that are searched by the shell.
If a user types the `ls` command, then the shell searches through the directories that are listed in the `PATH` variable to try to find a file named `ls` that it can execute.


## Which command:
+ The `which` command searches for the location of a command by searching the `PATH` variable.
```bash
am@ubuntu:~$ which date
/usr/bin/date
```


## Use full path:
+ External commands can also be executed by typing the complete path to the command.
+ For example, to execute the ls command:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ /bin/ls
```


## Type with `-a` option:
+ Using the `-a` option of the `type` command displays all locations that contain the command named:
```bash
am@ubuntu:~$ type -a echo
echo is a shell builtin
echo is /usr/bin/echo
echo is /bin/echo

```




----
# Aliases


An alias can be used to map longer commands to shorter key sequences.
When the shell sees an alias being executed, it substitutes the longer sequence before proceeding to interpret commands.


## All alias:
+ To determine what aliases are set on the current shell use the alias command:
```bash
am@ubuntu:~$ alias
alias alert='notify-send --urgency=low -i "$([ $? = 0 ] && echo terminal || echo error)" "$(history|tail -n1|sed -e '\''s/^\s*[0-9]\+\s*//;s/[;&|]\s*alert$//'\'')"'
alias egrep='egrep --color=auto'
alias fgrep='fgrep --color=auto'
alias grep='grep --color=auto'
alias l='ls -CF'
alias la='ls -A'
alias ll='ls -alF'
alias ls='ls --color=auto'
```
+ The aliases from the previous examples were created by initialization files. 
+ These files are designed to make the process of creating aliases automatic.


## Create new alias:
+ New aliases can be created using the following format, where `name` is the name to be given the alias and `command` is the command to be executed when the alias is run.
```bash
alias name=command
```
+ Aliases created this way only persist while the shell is open. Once the shell is closed, the new aliases are lost.
+ Each shell has its own aliases, so aliases created in one shell won’t be available in a new shell that’s opened.



----
# Functions


Functions can also be built using existing commands to either create new commands, or to override commands built-in to the shell or commands stored in files. 
Aliases and functions are normally loaded from the initialization files when the shell first starts.


## Create function:
+ Functions are more advanced than aliases and typically are used in Bash shell scripts. Typically, functions are used to execute multiple commands. To create a function, the following syntax is used:
```bash
function_name () 
{
   commands
}
```
+ For example:
```bash
am@ubuntu:~$ report(){ cd ~; ls Documents; date; echo "my report"; }

am@ubuntu:~$ report
'advanced library'   library  'my library'   python-docs-pdf
Sat 17 Feb 18:29:24 EET 2024
my report

```




