

Quotation marks are used throughout Linux administration and most computer programming languages to let the system know that the information contained within the quotation marks should either be ignored or treated in a way that is very different than it would normally be treated.

There are three types of quotes that have special significance to the Bash shell: double quotes ` " `, single quotes ` ' `, and back quotes `` ` ``. 
Each set of quotes alerts the shell not to treat the text within the quotes in the normal way.



---
# Double Quotes


Double quotes stop the shell from interpreting some metacharacters (special characters), including glob characters.


## Global charachter:
+ Glob characters, also called wild cards, are symbols that have special meaning to the shell; they are interpreted by the shell itself before it attempts to run any command.
+ Glob characters include the asterisk `*` character, the question `?` mark character, and the brackets `[ ]`, among others.
+ Double quotes still allow for command substitution, variable substitution, and permit some other shell metacharacters
+ The following demonstration shows that the value of the `PATH` variable is still displayed:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo "The path is $PATH"                          
The path is /usr/bin/custom:/home/sysadmin/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games
```



----
# Single Quotes


==Single quotes **prevent** the shell from doing any interpreting of special characters==, including globs, variables, command substitution and other metacharacters


For example, to make the `$` character simply mean a `$`, rather than it acting as an indicator to the shell to look for the value of a variable, execute the second command displayed below:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo The car costs $100                           
The car costs 00                                                        
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo 'The car costs $100'                        
The car costs $100
```



---
# Backslash Character


## Example:
+ There is also an alternative technique to essentially single quote a single character.
+ Consider the following message:
``The service costs $1 and the path is $PATH`` 
+ If this sentence is placed in double quotes, `$1` and `$PATH` are considered variables.
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo "The service costs $1 and the path is $PATH"

‌⁠​​⁠​The service costs  and the path is /usr/bin/custom:/home/sysadmin/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games
```
+ If it is placed in single quotes, `$1` and `$PATH` are not considered variables.
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo 'The service costs $1 and the path is $PATH' 
The service costs $1 and the path is $PATH
```


## Use back slash :
+ But what if you want to have `$PATH` treated as a variable and `$1` not?
+ In this case, use a backslash `\` character in front of the dollar sign `$` character to prevent the shell from interpreting it.
+ The command below demonstrates using the `\` character:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo The service costs \$1 and the path is $PATH
The service costs $1 and the path is /usr/bin/custom:/home/sysadmin/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games
```




----
# Backquotes


Backquotes, or back-ticks, are used to specify a command within a command, a process called command substitution. 
This allows for powerful and sophisticated use of commands.


```bash
am@ubuntu:~$ echo today is date
today is date

am@ubuntu:~$ echo today is `date`
today is Sat 17 Feb 18:51:09 EET 2024

```