

A large number of the files in a typical file system are text files. 
Text files only contain text, no formatting features that you might see in a word processing file.


---
# Viewing Files in the Terminal


The `cat` command, short for concatenate, is a simple but useful command whose functions include creating and displaying text files, as well as combining copies of text files.




---
# Viewing Files Using a Pager


For larger files, use a pager command to view the contents. Pager commands display one page of data at a time, allowing you to move forward and backward in the file by using movement keys.


## `less` command:
- The `less` command provides a very advanced paging capability. It is usually the default pager used by commands like the `man` command.



----
# Pager Movement Commands


To view a file with the `less` command, pass the file name as an argument.
When viewing a file with the `less` command, use the **H** key or **Shift**+**H** to display a help screen


| Key          | Movement        |
| ------------ | --------------- |
| **Spacebar** | Window forward  |
| **B**        | Window backward |
| **Enter**    | Line forward    |
| **Q**        | Exit            |
| **H**        | Help            |



---
# Pager Searching Commands



To start a search to look forward from your current position, use the slash **/** key.
Then, type the text or pattern to match and press the **Enter** key.

If a match can be found, then the cursor moves in the document to the match.

To search backward from your current position, press the question mark **?** key, then type the text or pattern to match and press the **Enter** key. The cursor moves backward to the first match it can find or reports that the pattern cannot be found.

If more than one match can be found by a search, then use the **n** key to move the next match and use the **Shift**+**N** key combination to go to a previous match.



---
# Head and Tail


The `head` and `tail` commands are used to display only the first few or last few lines of a file, respectively

Passing a number as an option will cause both the `head` and `tail` commands to output the specified number of lines, instead of the standard ten.

For example to display the last five lines of the `/etc/sysctl.conf` file use the `-5` option

The `-n` option can also be used to indicate how many lines to output


## Negative Value Option:
+ Traditionally in UNIX, the number of lines to output would be specified as an option with either command, so `-3` meant to show three lines.
+ For the `tail` command, either `-3` or `-n -3` still means show three lines.
+ However, the GNU version of the `head` command recognizes `-n -3` as show all but the last three lines, and yet the `head` command still recognizes the option `-3` as show the first three lines.


## Positive Value Option:
+ The GNU version of the `tail` command allows for a variation of how to specify the number of lines to be printed.
+ If the `-n` option is used with a number prefixed by the plus sign, then the `tail` command recognizes this to mean to display the contents starting at the specified line and continuing all the way to the end.
+ For example, the following displays the contents of the `/etc/passwd` from line `25` to the end of the file:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ nl /etc/passwd | tail -n +25
```


## Live file:
+ Live file changes can be viewed by using the `-f` option to the `tail` command—useful when you want to see changes to a file as they are happening.