

## `grep` command:
 + The `grep` command can be used to filter lines in a file or the output of another command that matches a specified pattern.


## Example:
+ For example, to find all the users who can log in to the system with the BASH shell, the `grep` command can be used to filter the lines from the `/etc/passwd` file for the lines containing the pattern `bash`:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ grep bash /etc/passwd
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
sysadmin:x:1001:1001:System Administrator,,,,:/home/sysadmin:/bin/bash
```
+ To make it easier to see what exactly is matched, use the `--color` option.


## How many matches:
 + In some cases, it may not be important to find the specific lines that match the pattern, but rather how many lines match the pattern.
 + The `-c` option provides a count of how many lines match


## Display line number:
 + The `-n` option to the `grep` command will display original line numbers. 
 + To display all lines and their line numbers in the `/etc/passwd` file which contain the pattern `bash`:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ grep -n bash /etc/passwd                          
1:root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash                                       
27:sysadmin:x:1001:1001:System Administrator,,,,:/home/sysadmin:/bin/bash
```


## Invert the match:
+ The `-v` option inverts the match, outputting all lines that do not contain the pattern.
+ To display all lines not containing `nologin` in the `/etc/passwd` file


## Ignore case:
+ The `-i` option ignores the case (capitalization) distinctions.



## Only whole word:
+ The `-w` option only returns lines which contain matches that form whole words. 
+ To be a word, the character string must be preceded and followed by a non-word character. 
+ Word characters include letters, digits, and the underscore character.
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep are newhome.txt
There are three bathrooms.
**Beware** of the ghost in the bedroom.
sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep -w are newhome.txt
There are three bathrooms.
```
