# What is Linux?


Linux is operating system software that runs on a hardware computer system.


## Operating system:
+ An operating system is software that allows other programs like word processors and web browsers to be installed and run on a computer.


## Why learning Linux?
+ The main reason why learning Linux is useful is that Linux is used almost everywhere! Linux is used on desktop and laptop computers, web servers, mobile devices (Android), public cloud technology (i.e., Google, Amazon, etc), Chromebooks, and networking (i.e., Cisco Networks).
+ IT professions that require knowledge of Linux skills:
	+ **Network Engineering**.
	+ **Cybersecurity**.
	+ **Developing/Programming**.
	+ **Data Analysis**.
+ Linux operating systems come in many forms. 
+ There is a variety of distributions available to fit the needs and demands of many IT sectors. 
+ For example, cybersecurity professionals may use Linux Kali, developers may use Linux Ubuntu, regular users may use Linux Mint, and enterprise servers can run on Red Hat Enterprise Linux.


### Network engineering:
+ Network engineers are responsible for managing the network computers use to transmit data. 
+ Knowledge of Linux is critical for network engineers since more than half of the world’s servers are Linux-based.
+ Most network operating systems are based on a variation of Linux.


### Cybersecurity:
+ Cybersecurity professionals monitor and investigate security threats to data on systems. 
+ Linux is used in cybersecurity to carry out system penetration testing and assess the vulnerability of a system.


### Developing/programming:
+ Developers and programmers design computer applications.
+ The Linux command-line allows developers and programmers to script; a function that allows a user to put commands together to execute complex actions on a computer. 
+ Linux is also used in this field because only Linux allows users to access its source code, giving users the ability to experiment with the code and learn by doing.


###  Data Analysis:
+ Data analysts and scientists sort and analyze data sets to find patterns in order to report and predict trends and behavior. 
+ Data analysts use Linux due to the wide array of tools and commands available for data analysis, such as MySQL and more.


## Command line interface:
+ Linux desktops use a GUI but it also has a more efficient tool for carrying out the same actions as a GUI, the command-line interface (CLI).
+ **The Linux command-line is a text-based interface that accepts commands that you type into it**. 
+ These commands cause an action to be executed onto the computer system’s operating system.


