

As the kernel and various processes run on the system, they produce output that describes how they are running.
Some of this output is displayed as standard output and error in the terminal window where the process was executed, though some of this data is not sent to the screen. Instead, it is written to various files. 
This information is called log data or log messages.
Some processes can log their own data to these files, other processes rely on a separate process (a daemon) to handle these log data files.


## `syslog`:
+ Syslog is the term that is used almost generically to describe logging in Linux systems as it has been in place quite some time. 
+ In some cases, when an author says syslog what they really mean is whatever logging system is currently in use on this distribution.


## Logging deamons:
 + Logging daemons differ in two main ways in recent distributions. 
 + The older method of doing system logging is two daemons (named `syslogd` and `klogd`) working together, but in more recent distributions, a single service named `rsyslogd` combines these two functions and more into a single daemon.


## `journalctl` command:
+ In yet more recent distributions, those based on systemd, the logging daemon is named `journald`, and the logs are designed to allow for mainly text output, but also binary. 
+ The standard method for viewing `journald`-based logs is to use the `journalctl` command.


## Log files:
+ Regardless of what the daemon process being used, the log files themselves are almost always placed into the `/var/log` directory structure. 
+ Although some of the file names may vary, here are some of the more common files to be found in this directory:

|File|Contents|
|---|---|
|`boot.log`|Messages generated as services are started during the startup of the system.|
|`cron`|Messages generated by the `crond` daemon for jobs to be executed on a recurring basis.|
|`dmesg`|Messages generated by the kernel during system boot up.|
|`maillog`|Messages produced by the `mail` daemon for e-mail messages sent or received.|
|`messages`|Messages from the kernel and other processes that don't belong elsewhere. Sometimes named `syslog` instead of `messages` after the daemon that writes this file.|
|`secure`|Messages from processes that required authorization or authentication (such as the login process).|
|`journal`|Messages from the default configuration of the `systemd-journald.service`; can be configured in the `/etc/journald.conf` file amongst other places.|
|`Xorg.0.log`|Messages from the X Windows (GUI) server.|


## View content of log files:
+ You can view the contents of various log files using two different methods.
+ First, as with most other files, you can use the `cat` command, or the `less` command to allow for searching, scrolling and other options.
+ The second method is to use the `journalctl` command on systemd-based systems, mainly because the `/var/log/journal` file now often contains binary information and using the `cat` or `less` commands may produce confusing screen behavior from control codes and binary items in the log files.


## Log files are rotated:
+ Log files are rotated, meaning older log files are renamed and replaced with newer log files. 
+ The file names that appear in the table above may have a numeric or date suffix added to them: for example, `secure.0` or `secure-20181103`.
+ Rotating a log file typically occurs on a regularly-scheduled basis: for example, once a week.
+ When a log file is rotated, the system stops writing to the log file and adds a suffix to it. 
+ Then a new file with the original name is created, and the logging process continues using this new file.


## Log file content type:
+ Although most log files contain text as their contents, which can be viewed safely with many tools, other files such as the `/var/log/btmp` and `/var/log/wtmp` files contain binary. 
+ By using the `file` command, users can check the file content type before they view it to make sure that it is safe to view. 
+ The following `file` command classifies `/var/log/wtmp` as `data`, which usually means the file is binary:
```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ file /var/log/wtmp
/var/log/wtmp: data
```
+ For the files that contain binary data, there are commands available that will read the files, interpret their contents and then output text. 
+ For example, the `lastb` and `last` commands can be used to view the `/var/log/btmp` and `/var/log/wtmp` files respectively.





