
## ICT:
+ Information and Communication Technology (ICT)


## Getting to the Command Line:
+ The command line interface (CLI) is a simple text input system for entering anything from single-word commands to complicated scripts.
+ Most operating systems have a CLI that provides a direct way of accessing and controlling the computer.
+ On systems that boot to a GUI, there are two common ways of accessing the command line—a GUI-based terminal, and a virtual terminal.



----
# Applications


## Kernel:
+ The kernel of the operating system is like an air traffic controller at an airport, and the applications are the airplanes under its control.
+ The kernel decides which program gets which blocks of memory, it starts and kills applications, and it handles displaying text or graphics on a monitor.
+ Applications make requests to the kernel and in return receive resources, such as memory, CPU, and disk space. If two applications request the same resource, the kernel decides which one gets it, and in some cases, kills off another application to save the rest of the system and prevent a crash.


### Kernel simplify many things:
+ The kernel also abstracts some complicated details away from the application. For example, the application doesn’t know if a block of disk storage is on a solid-state drive, a spinning metal hard disk, or even a network file share. 
+ Applications need only follow the kernel’s Application Programming Interface (API) and therefore don’t have to worry about the implementation details.
+ Each application behaves as if it has a large block of memory on the system; the kernel maintains this illusion (وهم) by remapping (إعادة رسم الخرائط) smaller blocks of memory, sharing blocks of memory with other applications, or even swapping out untouched blocks to disk.


### Kernel also do:
+ The kernel also handles the switching of applications, a process known as multitasking. 
+ A computer system has a small number of central processing units (CPUs) and a finite amount of memory. 
+ The kernel takes care of unloading one task and loading a new one if there is more demand than resources available. 
+ When one task has run for a specified amount of time, the CPU pauses it so that another may run.
+ If the computer is doing several tasks at once, the kernel is deciding when to switch focus between tasks. 
+ With the tasks rapidly switching, it appears that the computer is doing many things at once.


## Process:
+ When we, as users, think of applications, we tend to think of word processors, web browsers, and email clients, however, there are a large variety of application types. 
+ The kernel doesn’t differentiate between a user-facing application, a network service that talks to a remote computer, or an internal task. 
+ From this, we get an abstraction called a process. 
+ ==A process is just one task that is loaded and tracked by the kernel==.
+ An application may even need multiple processes to function, so the kernel takes care of running the processes, starting and stopping them as requested, and handing out system resources.



---
# Major Applications


## Kernel work with many roles:
+ The Linux kernel can run a wide variety of software across many hardware platforms.
+ A computer can act as a server, which means it primarily handles data on others’ behalf, or as a desktop, which means a user interacts with it directly.
+ The machine can run software or be used as a development machine in the process of creating software.
+ A machine can even adopt (يتبنى) multiple roles as Linux makes no distinction; it’s merely a matter of configuring which applications run.


## Linux categories:
+ Linux software generally falls into one of three categories:
	- **Server Applications**.
	- **Desktop Applications**.
	- **Tools**.


## **Server Applications**:
+ Software that has no direct interaction with the monitor and keyboard of the machine it runs on. 
+ Its purpose is to serve information to other computers, called clients. 
+ Sometimes server applications may not talk to other computers but only sit there and crunch (سحق) data.


## **Desktop Applications**:
+ Web browsers, text editors, music players, or other applications with which users interact directly.
+ In many cases, such as a web browser, the application is talking to a server on the other end and interpreting the data. 
+ This is the “client” side of a client/server application.


## **Tools**:
+ A loose category of software that exists to make it easier to manage computer systems. 
+ Tools can help configure displays, provide a Linux shell that users type commands into, or even more sophisticated (متطور) tools, called compilers, that convert source code to application programs that the computer can execute.



## Applications and distributions:
+ The availability of applications varies depending on the distribution. 
+ Often application vendors choose a subset of distributions to support.
+ Different distributions have different versions of key libraries, and it is difficult for a company to support all these different versions. 
+ Some applications, however, like Firefox and LibreOffice are widely supported and available for all major distributions.



---
# Server Applications


Linux excels (يتفوق) at running server applications because of its reliability and efficiency.
The ability to optimize server operating systems with just needed components allows administrators to do more with less, a feature loved by startups and large enterprises alike.



## Web Servers:
+ One of the early uses of Linux was for web servers.
+ A web server hosts content for web pages, which are viewed by a web browser using the **`HyperText` Transfer Protocol (HTTP)** or its encrypted flavor, **`HTTPS`**.
+ The web page itself can either be static or dynamic. 
+ When the web browser requests a static page, the web server sends the file as it appears on disk.
+ In the case of a dynamic site, the request is sent by the web server to an application, which generates the content.


### WordPress:
+ **WordPress** is one popular example for web server.
+ Users can develop content through their browser in the WordPress application, and the software turns it into a fully functional dynamic website.


### Apache:
+ **Apache** is the dominant web server in use today. 
+ Apache was originally a standalone project, but the group has since formed the **Apache Software Foundation** and maintains over a hundred open source software projects. 
+ **Apache HTTPD** is the daemon (الخفي), or server application program, that “serves” web page requests.


### NGINX:
+ Another web server is **NGINX**, which is based out of Russia. 
+ It focuses on performance by making use of more modern UNIX kernels and only does a subset of what Apache can do.
+ Over 65% of websites are powered by either NGINX or Apache.


## Private Cloud Servers:
+ As individuals, organizations, and companies start to move their data to the cloud, there is a growing demand for private cloud server software that can be deployed and administered internally.


### **OwnCloud** project:
+ The **ownCloud** project was launched in 2010 by Frank Karlitschek to provide software to store, sync and share data from private cloud servers.
+ It is available in a standard open source GNU AGPLv3 license and an enterprise version that carries a commercial license.

### **Nextcloud** project: 
+ The **Nextcloud** project was forked from ownCloud in 2016 by Karlitschek and has been growing steadily since then.
+ It is provided under a GNU AGPLv3 and aims for “an open, transparent development process.”
+ Both projects focus on providing private cloud software that meets the needs of both large and small organizations that require security, privacy, and regulatory (التنظيمية) compliance (الالتزام).
+ While several other projects aim to serve the same users, these two are by far the largest in terms of both deployment and project members.


## Database Servers:
+ Database server applications form the backbone of most online services.
+ Dynamic web applications pull data from and write data to these applications. 
+ For example, a web program for tracking online students might consist of a front-end server that presents a web form.
+ When data is entered into the form, it is written to a database application such as **MariaDB**. 
+ When instructors need to access student information, the web application queries the database and returns the results through the web application.


### MarialDB:
+ MariaDB is a community-developed fork of the **MySQL** relational database management system. 
+ It is just one of many database servers used for web development as different requirements dictate (تملي) the best application for the required tasks.


### Other popular database:
+ A database stores information and also allows for easy retrieval and querying.
+ Some other popular databases are **`Firebird`** and **`PostgreSQL`**.
+ You might enter raw sales figures into the database and then use a language called **Structured Query Language (SQL)** to aggregate sales by product and date to produce a report.


## Email Servers
+ Email has always been a widespread (واسع الانتشار) use for Linux servers.
+ When discussing email servers, it is always helpful to look at the 3 different tasks required to get email between people:
	+ _Mail Transfer (تحويل) Agent_.
	+ _Mail Delivery (توصيل) Agent_.
	+ _POP/IMAP Server_.


### Mail Transfer Agent (MTA):
+ The most well known MTA (software that is used to transfer electronic messages to other systems) is `Sendmail`.
+ `Postfix` is another popular one and aims to be simpler and more secure than `Sendmail`.


### Mail Delivery Agent (MDA):
+ Also called the Local Delivery Agent, it takes care of storing the email in the user’s mailbox. 
+ Usually invoked from the final MTA in the chain.


### POP/IMAP Server:
+ The Post Office Protocol (POP) and Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) are two communication protocols that let an email client running on your computer talk to a remote server to pick up the email.
+ **`Dovecot`** is a popular `POP`/`IMAP` server owing to its ease of use and low maintenance.
+ **`Cyrus IMAP`** is another option.
+ Some `POP`/`IMAP` servers implement their own mail database format for performance and include the `MDA` if the custom database is desired.
+ People using standard file formats (such as all the emails in one text file) can choose any MDA.


## File Sharing
+ For Windows-centric file sharing, **Samba** is the clear winner. 
+ Samba allows a Linux machine to look and behave like a Windows machine so that it can share files and participate in a Windows domain.
+ Samba implements the server components, such as making files available for sharing and certain Windows server roles, and also the client end so that a Linux machine may consume a Windows file share.
+ The **Netatalk** project lets a Linux machine perform as an Apple Macintosh file server. 
+ The native file sharing protocol for UNIX/Linux is called the **Network File System (NFS)**.
+ NFS is usually part of the kernel which means that a remote file system can be mounted (made accessible) just like a regular disk, making file access transparent to other applications.


### Network directory (توجيهي) systems:
+ As a computer network becomes more substantial (جوهري), the need for a directory increases. 
+ One of the oldest network directory systems is the **Domain Name System (DNS)**. 
+ It is used to convert a name like https://www.icann.org/ to an IP address like `192.0.43.7`, which is a unique identifier of a computer on the Internet.
+ DNS also holds global information like the address of the MTA for a given domain name.
+ An organization may want to run their own DNS server to host their public-facing names, and also to serve as an internal directory of services.
+ The **Internet Software Consortium (التحالف)** maintains the most popular DNS server, simply called bind after the name of the process that runs the service.


### Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (`LDAP`):
+ The DNS is focused mainly on computer names and IP addresses and is not easily searchable. 
+ Other directories have sprung up to store information such as user accounts and security roles. 
+ The **Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)** is one common directory system which also powers Microsoft’s Active Directory.
+ In LDAP, an object is stored in a tree, and the position of that object on the tree can be used to derive information about the object and what it stores. 
+ For example, a Linux administrator may be stored in a branch of the tree called “IT Department,” which is under a branch called “Operations.”
+ Thus one can find all the technical staff by searching under the “IT Department” branch.
+ **OpenLDAP** is the dominant program used in Linux infrastructure.


### Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol:
+ One final piece of network infrastructure to discuss here is called the **Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)**. 
+ When a computer boots up, it needs an IP address for the local network so it can be uniquely identified. DHCP’s job is to listen for requests and to assign a free address from the DHCP pool.
+ The Internet Systems Consortium (known until January 2004 as the Internet Software Consortium) also maintains the **ISC DHCP** server, which is the most common open source DHCP server.



----
# Email


The Mozilla Foundation came out with **Thunderbird**, a full-featured desktop email client. Thunderbird connects to a POP or IMAP server, displays email locally, and sends email through an external SMTP server.


Other notable email clients are **`Evolution`** and **`KMail`** which are the GNOME and KDE projects' email clients. Standardization through POP and IMAP and local email formats means that it’s easy to switch between email clients without losing data.



