

# Shell


At the basic level, users interact with a Linux system through a shell whether connecting to the system remotely or from an attached keyboard. The shell’s job is to accept commands, like file manipulations and starting applications, and to pass those to the Linux kernel for execution. ‌⁠​​⁠​


## Bash:
+ Linux offers a variety of shells to choose from, mostly differing in how and what can be customized, and the syntax of the built-in scripting language.
+ The two main families are the **Bourne shell** and the **C shell**. 
+ The Bourne shell was named after its creator Stephen Bourne of Bell Labs. The C shell was so named because its syntax borrows heavily from the C language.
+ As both these shells were invented in the 1970s, there are more modern versions, the **Bourne Again Shell (Bash)** and the **tcsh** (pronounced as tee-cee-shell). 
+ ==Bash is the default shell on most systems, though tcsh is also typically available.==



---
# Text Editors


Most Linux systems provide a choice of text editors which are commonly used at the console to edit configuration files. The two main applications are **Vi** (or the more modern **Vim**) and **Emacs**. Both are remarkably powerful tools to edit text files; they differ in the format of the commands and how plugins are written for them.
Plugins can be anything from syntax highlighting of software projects to integrated calendars.


Both Vi and Emacs are complex and have a steep learning curve, which is not helpful for simple editing of a small text file. Therefore, **Pico** and **Nano** are available on most systems and provide very basic text editing.