# Overview

Package management is a system by which software can be installed, updated, queried or removed from a filesystem.

In Linux, there are many different software package management systems, but the two most popular are those from Debian and Red Hat.


## Why package manager:  
+ Every Linux system needs to add, remove, and update software. In the past this meant downloading the source code, setting it up, compiling it, and copying files onto each system that required updating.
+ Thankfully, modern distributions use packages, which are compressed files that bundle up an application and its dependencies (or required files), greatly simplifying the installation by making the right directories, copying the proper files into them, and creating such needed items as symbolic links.



---
# Debian Package Management


The Debian distribution, and its derivatives such as Ubuntu and Mint, use the Debian package management system. At the heart of Debian package management are software packages that are distributed as files ending in the `.deb` extension.


The lowest-level tool for managing these files is the `dpkg` command. 
This command can be tricky for novice Linux users, so the **Advanced Package Tool**, `apt-get` (a front-end program to the `dpkg` tool), makes management of packages easier. Additional command line tools which serve as front-ends to `dpkg` include `aptitude` and GUI front-ends like **Synaptic** and **Software Center**.



----
# RPM Package Management


## Standard package management system:
+ The **Linux Standards Base**, which is a **Linux Foundation** project, is designed to specify (through a consensus) a set of standards that increase the compatibility between conforming Linux systems.
+ According to the Linux Standards Base, the standard package management system is RPM.
+ RPM makes use of an `.rpm` file for each software package. 
+ This system is what distributions derived from Red Hat, including Centos and Fedora, use to manage software. 
+ Several other distributions that are not Red Hat derived, such as SUSE, OpenSUSE, and Arch, also use RPM.


## Track dependencies between packages:
+ Like the Debian system, RPM Package Management systems track dependencies between packages. 
+ Tracking dependencies ensures that when a package is installed, the system also installs any packages needed by that package to function correctly. 
+ Dependencies also ensure that software updates and removals are performed properly.


## `rpm` command:
+ The back-end tool most commonly used for RPM Package Management is the `rpm` command. 
+ While the `rpm` command can install, update, query and remove packages, the command line front-end tools such as `yum` and `up2date` automate the process of resolving dependency issues.
+ There are also GUI-based front-end tools such as **Yumex** and **Gnome PackageKit** that also make RPM package management easier.


---
# Manage your packages


## `dpkg` command:
+ At the lowest level of the Debian package management system is the `dpkg` command.
+ This command can be tricky for novice Linux users, so the Advanced Package Tool, `apt-get`, a front-end program to the `dpkg` tool, makes management of packages even easier.


## Check which architectures APT knows
```sh
dpkg --print-foreign-architectures
```


## Remove the `i386` architecture (if you don’t need it)
```sh
sudo dpkg --remove-architecture i386
```


## List all package for specific architecture
```sh
dpkg -l | grep i386
```


## Installing Packages:
+ Package files are commonly installed by downloading them directly from repositories located on Internet servers. 
+ The Debian repositories contain more than 65,000 different packages of software. 
+ Before installing a package, it is good practice to refresh the list of available packages using the `apt-get update` command.


## Search for keywords:
+ To search for keywords within these packages, you can use the `apt-cache search` command.
```
apt-cache search [keyword]
```
+ The keyword that is used should match part of the name or description of the package that is to be located.
+ Once you've found the package that you want to install, you can install it with the `apt-get install` command:
```
sudo apt-get install [package]
```

 
## Updating Packages:
+ The `apt-get install` command can also update a package, if that package is installed and a newer version is available.
+ Updating all packages of the system should be done in two steps. 
	+ First, update the cache of all packages available with `apt-get update`. 
	+ Second, execute the `apt-get upgrade` command and all packages and dependencies will be updated.


## Removing Packages:
+ The `apt-get` command is able to either remove or purge a package. 
+ The difference between the two is that purging deletes all package files, while removing deletes all but the configuration files for the package.
+ An administrator can execute the `apt-get remove` command to remove a package or the `apt-get purge` command to purge a package completely from the system.

