# Development language


# Compiled vs interpreted:
+ Languages fall into one of two camps: interpreted or compiled. 
+ An interpreted language translates the written code into computer code as the program runs, and a compiled language is translated all at once.


## Linux and C language:
+ Linux itself was written in a compiled language called **C**.
+ The main benefit of C is that the language itself maps closely to the generated machine code so that a skilled programmer can write code that is small and efficient. 
+ When computer memory was measured in kilobytes, this was very important.
+ Even with large memory sizes today, C is still helpful for writing code that must run fast, such as an operating system.


## C++:
+ C has been extended over the years. There is **C++**, which adds object support to C (a different style of programming), and **Objective C** that took another direction and is in heavy use in Apple products.


## Java:
+ The **Java** language puts a different spin on the compiled approach. 
+ Instead of compiling to machine code, Java first imagines a hypothetical (افتراضية) CPU called the **Java Virtual Machine (JVM)** and then compiles all the code to that.
+ Each host computer then runs JVM software to translate the JVM instructions (called byte-code) into native instructions.
+ The additional translation with Java might make you think it would be slow. 
+ However, the JVM is relatively simple so it can be implemented quickly and reliably on anything from a powerful computer to a low power device that connects to a television. 
+ A compiled Java file can also be run on any computer implementing the JVM!
+ Another benefit of compiling to an intermediate target is that the JVM can provide services to the application that usually wouldn’t be available on a CPU. 
+ Allocating memory to a program is a complex problem, but it’s built into the JVM.
+ As a result, JVM makers can focus their improvements on the JVM as a whole, so any progress they make is instantly available to applications.


## Interpreted languages:
+ Interpreted languages, on the other hand, are translated to machine code as they execute.
+ The extra computer power spent doing this can often be recouped by the increased productivity the programmer gains by not having to stop working to compile. 
+ Interpreted languages also tend to offer more features than compiled languages, meaning that often less code is needed.
+ The language interpreter itself is usually written in another language such as C, and sometimes even Java! This means that an interpreted language is being run on the JVM, which is translated at runtime into actual machine code.


## JavaScript:
+ **JavaScript** is a high-level interpreted programming language that is one of the core technologies on the world wide web. 
+ It is similar to but fundamentally different from Java, which is a completely object-oriented programming language owned by Oracle.
+ JavaScript is a cross-platform scripting language for adding interactive elements to web pages, that is in wide use across the internet.
+ By using JavaScript libraries, web programmers can add everything from simple animations to complex server-side applications for internet users. 
+ JavaScript is continuously evolving to meet the functionality and security needs of internet users and is capable of being released under a GNU GPL License.


## OOP:
+ The term object-oriented refers to programing that abstracts complex actions and processes so that the end user only deals with basic tasks. 
+ To visualize this concept, think of a machine that performs a complex set of tasks by simply pushing a button.

## Perl:
+ **Perl** is an interpreted language.
+ Perl was originally developed to perform text manipulation.
+ Over the years, it gained favor with systems administrators and continues to be improved and used in everything from automation to building web applications.

## PHP:
+ **PHP** is a language that was initially built to create dynamic web pages.
+ A PHP file is read by a web server such as Apache.
+ Special tags in the file indicate that parts of the code should be interpreted as instructions.
+ The web server pulls all the different parts of the file together and sends it to the web browser.
+ PHP’s main advantages are that it is easy to learn and available on almost any system.
+ Because of this, many popular projects are built on PHP.
+ Notable examples include WordPress (for blogging), cacti (for monitoring), and even parts of Facebook.


## Ruby:
+ **Ruby** is another language that was influenced by Perl and Shell, along with many other languages.
+ It makes complex programming tasks relatively easy, and with the inclusion of the Ruby on Rails framework, is a popular choice for building complex web applications.
+ Ruby is also the language that powers many of the leading automation tools like **Chef** and **Puppet**, which make managing a large number of Linux systems much simpler.


## Python:
+ **Python** is another scripting language that is in general use.
+ Much like Ruby it makes complex tasks easier and has a framework called **Django** that makes building web applications very easy.
+ Python has excellent statistical processing abilities and is a favorite in academia.


## Computer programming languages:
+ A computer programming language is just a tool that makes it easier to tell the computer what you want it to do. A
+ library bundles common tasks into a distinct package that can be used by the developer.
+ **ImageMagick** is one such library that lets programmers manipulate images in code.
+ `ImageMagick` also ships with some command line tools that enable programmers to process images from a shell and take advantage of the scripting capabilities there.


## OPentSSL:
+ **OpenSSL** is a cryptographic library that is used in everything from web servers to the command line.
+ It provides a standard interface for adding cryptography into a Perl script, for example.


## C library: 
+ At a much lower level is the **C library**. 
+ The C library provides a basic set of functions for reading and writing to files and displays, and is used by applications and other languages alike.