# Cloud computing



## What is the cloud:
+ Physically, a cloud can be described as computing resources from one or many off-site data centers which can be accessed over the internet. 
+ The cloud builds on the benefits of a data center and provides computing solutions to organizations who need to store and process data, and it allows them to delegate management of IT infrastructure to a third-party. 
+ The data and resources that organizations store in the cloud can include data, servers, storage, application hosting, analytics and a myriad of other services.


## Cloud deployment models:
+ A cloud deployment model provides a basis for how cloud infrastructure is **built**, **managed**, and **accessed**. 
+ There are four primary cloud deployment models:
	+ **Public Cloud**.
	+ **Private Cloud**.
	+ **Community Cloud**.
	+ **Hybrid Cloud**.


## Public Cloud:
- **Public Cloud**: A public cloud is a cloud infrastructure deployed by a provider to offer cloud services to the general public and organizations over the Internet. In the public cloud model, there may be multiple tenants (consumers) who share common cloud resources. More than likely, many of us have accessed public cloud resources at some point through providers such as Amazon, Google, and other popular public cloud providers.


## Private Cloud:
- **Private Cloud**: A private cloud is a cloud infrastructure that is set up for the sole use of a particular organization. When compared to a public cloud, a private cloud offers organizations a greater degree of privacy, and control over the cloud infrastructure, applications, and data. It can be hosted either on servers managed by the company that is using it or through a managed private cloud provider such as Rackspace or IBM.


## Community Cloud:
- **Community Cloud**: A community cloud is a cloud infrastructure that is set up for the sole use by a group of organizations with common goals or requirements. The organizations participating in the community typically share the cost of the community cloud service. This option may be more expensive than the public cloud; however, it may offer a higher level of control and protection against external threats than a public cloud.


## Hybrid Cloud
- **Hybrid Cloud**: A hybrid cloud is composed of two or more individual clouds, each of which can be a private, community, or public cloud. A hybrid cloud may change over time as component clouds join and leave. The use of such technology enables data and application portability. It also allows companies to leverage outside resources while retaining control of sensitive resources.


---
# Linux in the Cloud



So what makes Linux uniquely suited to enabling cloud computing?


## **Flexibility**:
+ Cloud computing provides the capability to provision IT resources quickly and at any time.
+ This agility (خفة الحركة) enables rapid development and experimentation that, in turn, facilitates innovation which is essential for research and development, the discovery of new markets and revenue opportunities, creating new customer segments, and the development of new products.
+ As a result, cloud computing must compensate (يكافئ) for the fact that each organization has a unique, evolving set of resource requirements.
+ Linux stands out here because it is highly adaptable. 
+ For starters, Linux is modular by design, and at the center of an enormous ecosystem of open source applications providing endless configuration options to suit various systems and use cases. 
+ On top of that, Linux scales efficiently, allowing it to run anything from a tiny remote sensor to an entire server farm.


## **Accessibility**:
+ In a traditional environment, IT resources are accessed from dedicated (مخلص) devices, such as a desktop or a laptop. 
+ In cloud computing, applications and data reside centrally and are accessed from anywhere over a network from any device, such as desktop, mobile, or thin client, and there is a version of Linux for every single one of these devices.


## **Cost-Effective**:
+ Cloud computing is attractive as it has the potential for consumers to reduce their IT costs.
+ In cloud computing, consumers can unilaterally (من جانب واحد) and automatically scale IT resources to meet workload demand, thereby eliminating overhead from underutilized resources.
+ Additionally, the expenses (نفقات) associated with IT configuration, management, floor space, power, and cooling are reduced.
+ Cloud providers absorb these infrastructure costs but must remain a low-cost alternative.
+ Choosing Linux is one of the most cost-effective solutions providers can deploy.
+ Linux is one of the most power efficient operating systems, and the Linux kernel is completely free, as are many associated applications, utilities, and additional software components.


## **Manageability**:
+ While Linux began as a niche (المكانة) operating system, its widespread presence in the IT industry has made Linux use and administration a necessary skill for IT professionals. 
+ It is becoming increasingly easy for cloud vendors and consumers to acquire the necessary talent, or reallocate existing team members.
+ The nature of Linux, built on the C programming language, also lends itself to automated management tools.
+ A significant portion of Linux servers operating in the cloud are created and managed by automated management programs rather than human operators.
+ This process frees up administrators to monitor computing operations rather than manually configuring and updating systems.


## **Security**:
+ When using a cloud solution, especially a public cloud, an organization may have concerns related to privacy, external threats, and lack of control over the IT resources and data.
+ Linux can help offset these issues because it is one of the most secure and reliable operating systems available.
+ Linux is open source, meaning its source code is available for anyone to obtain, review, and modify.
+ This also means the code can be inspected for vulnerabilities and compatibility issues, resulting in an extensive community effort to rectify these issues and uphold the robust reputation of Linux



## **Virtualization**:
+ Virtualization is one of the most significant advancements that has contributed to the enablement cloud of computing.
+ Linux is a multi-user operating system, which means that many different users can work on the same system simultaneously and for the most part can’t do things to harm other users.
+ However, this does have limitations – users can hog disk space or take up too much memory or CPU resources and make the system slow for everyone. 
+ Sharing the system in multi-user mode also requires that everyone run as unprivileged users, so letting each user run their own web server, for example, is challenging.


### Virtualization is:
+ Virtualization is the process where one physical computer, called the host, runs multiple copies of an operating system, each copy called a guest. 
+ These guest images can be pre-configured for specific functions to allow rapid deployment, often automatically, when needed. 
+ The host system runs software called a hypervisor (مراقب الأجهزة الافتراضية) that switches resources between the various guests just like the Linux kernel does for individual processes. 
+ With bare metal hypervisors, the hypervisor runs directly on computer hardware rather than on top of an OS freeing up more resources for guest images.

### Why virtualization:
+ Virtualization works because servers spend most of their time idling and don’t need physical resources such as a monitor and keyboard. 
+ With software like **Workstation** and **VirtualBox** from companies like **VMWare** and **Oracle**, you can now take a powerful CPU and by using it to run multiple virtual machines administrators can optimize usage of physical resources and dramatically reduce costs over the previous one-machine, one-OS data center model.
+ The main limitation is usually memory, however, with advances in hypervisor technology and CPUs, it is possible to put more virtual machines on one host than ever.


### Many guests:
+ In a virtualized environment one host can run dozens of guest operating systems, and with support from the CPU itself, the guests don’t even know they are running on a virtual machine.
+ Each guest gets its own virtual resources and communicates with the network on its own.
+ It is not even necessary to run the same operating system on all the guests, which further reduces the number of physical servers needed.


### Reduce consumption:
+ Virtualization offers a way for an enterprise to lower power usage and reduce data center space over an equivalent fleet of physical servers.
+ Guests are now just software configurations, so it is easy to spin up a new machine for testing and destroy it when its usefulness has passed.
+ Since it is possible to run multiple instances of an operating system on one physical machine and connect to it over the network, the location of the machine doesn’t matter. 
+ Cloud computing takes this approach and allows administrators to have virtual machines in a remote data center owned by another company, and only pay for the resources used.
+ Cloud computing vendors can take advantage of scales of economy to offer computing resources at far lower prices than operating an on-site data center.


## **Containers and Bare Metal Deployments**:
+ With the rise of containerization (النقل بالحاويات) technologies like **Docker** and **Kubernetes** application software is now being written that runs in a serverless environment. 
+ Essentially, programmers are creating software that does one single function of a system (like database processing or storage) that runs in a container. 
+ These containers are organized in pods that run within a node and can talk with each other, and the outside world if needed. 
+ Nodes, in turn, are organized and controlled by a master node that provides services to each component within the structure.
+ Building applications in this way decouples each of the components from the others, and from the overhead of running an OS.
+ Since each piece of the puzzle can be automatically destroyed and recreated by the master node they no longer need to be as robust as software that runs on top of an OS. 
+ Although these new programming architectures are in many ways bypassing the need for a traditional OS the underlying technology that makes them work is still Linux.
+ So, working in Linux will increasingly be working within a development team that draws on the disciplines of programming, database design, networking, and systems administration to create the systems of the future.

