
Before you start subnetting, you should develop an IPv4 addressing scheme for your entire network. 

You will need to know how many subnets you need, how many hosts a particular subnet requires, what devices are part of the subnet, which parts of your network use private addresses, and which use public, and many other determining factors. 

A good addressing scheme allows for growth. 
A good addressing scheme is also the sign of a good network administrator.

Planning IPv4 network subnets requires you to examine both the needs of an organization’s network usage, and how the subnets will be structured. 

==Performing a network **requirement study** is the starting point.== 

This means looking at the entire network, both the intranet and the DMZ, and determining how each area will be segmented. 

The address plan includes determining where address conservation is needed (usually within the DMZ), and where there is more flexibility (usually within the intranet).

Where address conservation is required, the plan should determine how many subnets are needed and how many hosts per subnet. 

As discussed earlier, this is usually required for public IPv4 address space within the DMZ. 

This will most likely include using **`VLSM`**.

Within the corporate intranet, address conservation is usually less of an issue This is largely due to using private IPv4 addressing, including `10.0.0.0/8`, with over _16 million_ host IPv4 addresses.

For most organizations, private IPv4 addresses allow for more than enough internal (intranet) addresses. 
For many larger organizations and ISPs, even private IPv4 address space is not large enough to accommodate their internal needs. 
This is another reason why organizations are transitioning to IPv6.

For intranets that use private IPv4 addresses and DMZs that use public IPv4 addresses, address planning and assignment is important.

